I slept for seventy years, sir. I think I've had my fill.
I went under, the world was at war, I wake up, they say we won. They didn't say what we lost.
You here with a mission, sir?
Trying to get me back in the world?
Hydra's secret weapon.
Who took it from you?
At this point, I doubt anything would surprise me.
You should have left it in the ocean.
You're good on this end. The rest is up to you.
Stark Tower is about to become a beacon of self-sustaining clean energy.
I assume. Light her up. As IRON MAN flies to the STARK TOWER BUILDING, the power is switched on and the STARK sign LIGHTS UP.
Like Christmas, but with more... me.
Pepper, you're killing me. Remember? Enjoy the moment.
I'm not in. I'm actually out.
Close the line Jarvis. I got a date.
Of course they are, I was directly involved. Which brings me to my next question: how does it feel to be a genius?
What do you mean? All this came from you.
Give yourself some credit, please. Stark Tower is your baby. Give yourself... twelve percent of the credit.
An argument can be made for fifteen.
Well, I did do all the heavy lifting. Literally, I lifted the heavy things. And sorry, but the security snafu? That was on you.
My private elevator...
...was teeming with sweaty workmen. I'm going to pay for that comment about percentages in some subtle way later, aren't I? Pepper pours herself and Tony a glass of champagne.
I'll tell you what. Next building's gonna say 'Potts' on the tower.
...Call your mom, can you bunk over?
You have reached the life model decoy of Tony Stark, please leave a message.
Then leave it urgently. At that moment the elevator door opens and Coulson appears.
Security breach.
Phil? Uh, his first name is Agent.
Which is why he can't stay.
I don't like being handed things.
Official consulting hours are between eight and five every other Thursday.
The Avengers Initiative was scrapped, I thought. And I didn't even qualify.
Yeah, apparently I'm volatile, self- obsessed, don't play well with others.
Whatever. Miss Potts, got a minute? Pepper walks over to Tony who places the files into his own databases.
You know, I thought we were having a moment.
How did you notice? Why is he Phil?
This is, uh... Tony EXPANDS his arms and different profiles appear in holographic form floating in the air in front of Tony and Pepper.
This. Screens appear of CAPTAIN AMERICA IN ACTION, the HULK ROARING AS
Tomorrow.
Well, what if I didn't?
Yeah.
Square deal. It's the last date. Pepper kisses him.
So, this Doctor Banner was trying to replicate the serum that was used on me?
Didn't really go his way, did it?
Well, I hope I'm the man for the job.
The uniform? Aren't the stars and stripes a little... old fashioned?
Ma'am?
Trading cards?
Dr. Banner. Steve walks up to Banner and shakes his hands.
Word is you can find the cube.
Only word I care about.
Well, this is actually kind of familiar.
Is this is a submarine?
No, no. It's fine.
You know, the last time I was in Germany and saw a man standing above everybody else, we ended up disagreeing.
I'm not the one who's out of time. From above Cap, the QUINJET arrives. A machine gun is pointed towards Loki.
Not today! Cap FLIPS and KNOCKS him out with his leg. Loki grabs him and FLIPS him over.
Agent Romanoff, did you miss me? Both Cap and Loki look up at the sky. Tony flies over in his IRON MAN suit and blasts Loki right back to the ground. IRON MAN touches down. He stands up and pulls out every piece of weaponry the suit has.
Make your move, Reindeer Games. Loki puts up his hands and surrenders. His armor materializes away.
Good move.
Mr. Stark.
Captain.
I don't like it.
What? Rock of Ages giving up so easily?
I don't remember it being ever that easy. This guy packs a wallop.
Still, you are pretty spry, for an older fellow. What's your thing? Pilates?
What?
It's like calisthenics. You might have missed a couple things, you know, doing time as a Capsicle. Steve looks at Tony, finally meeting his ego match.
Fury didn't tell me he was calling you in.
Yeah, there's a lot of things Fury doesn't tell you. THUNDER and LIGHTNING nearly hit the jet, making it shake violently.
What's the matter? Scared of a little lightning?
Now there's that guy.
Think the guy's a friendly?
Doesn't matter. If he frees Loki or kills him, the Tesseract's lost. Tony turns and gets ready to jump off the jet to chase after Thor.
Stark, we need a plan of attack!
I have a plan. Attack. IRON MAN jumps out of the jet and chases after Thor. Cap grabs a parachute to follow.
I don't see how I can.
There's only one God, ma'am. And I'm pretty sure he doesn't dress like that. Cap JUMPS OUT of the jet.
Where is the Tesseract?
Do I look to be in a gaming mood?!
I thought you dead.
We all did. Our father...
We were raised together, we played together, we fought together. Do you remember none of that?
So you take the world I love as recompense for your imagined slights. No, the Earth is under my protection, Loki.
You think yourself above them.
Then you miss the truth of ruling, brother. Throne would suit you ill. Angrily, Loki shoves his brother to the side. He walks back up to the ledge. Turns around.
Who showed you this power? Who controls the would-be-king?
Not here! You give up the Tesseract! You give up this poisonous dream! You come home.
You listen well, brother. I...
Do not touch me again!
Then don't take my stuff.
You have no idea what you're dealing with.
Shakespeare in the park? Doth mother know you weareth her drapes?
This is beyond you, metal man. Loki will face Asgardian justice!
He gives up the Cube, he's all yours. Until then, stay out of my way... tourist. The IRON MAN helmet clamps up and he walks away. In one quick move, Thor pulls Mjölnir, throws it, and KNOCKS IRON MAN clear across into a tree.
Okay. From the mountain side, Loki watches in amusement. Thor raises his hand. Mjölnir flies back to his hand. Thor SWINGS the hammer, summoning a ray of energy. IRON MAN stands up and from his HAND BOOSTERS, a BLAST of ENERGY KNOCKS the MIGHTY AVENGER on his ass. IRON MAN flies back up and knocks Thor into a tree. Right back at you, bitch! Thor, kneeling on the ground, pulls Mjölnir to his hand, raises it to the skies and pulls in LIGHTING and THUNDER! Thor points the hammer at IRON MAN and the outpouring of bolts lighting increases in intensity. IRON MAN falls back.
How about that? IRON MAN FIRES AWAY FROM HIS HAND BOOSTERS, pushing Thor to his knees. Like two gunslingers ready to draw, both Thor and IRON MAN fly towards each other and meet in the middle and ascend up.
Hey! That's enough! Now, I don't know what you plan on doing here.
I've come here to put an end to Loki's schemes!
Then prove it! Put the hammer down.
Um, yeah, no! Bad call! He loves his hammer!
 You want me to put the hammer down?
Are we done here?
Loki's gonna drag this out. So, Thor, what's his play?
 He has an army called the Chitauri. They're not of Asgard or any world known. He means to lead them against your people. They will win him the earth. In return, I suspect, for the Tesseract.
 An army? From outer space?
Selvig?
He's a friend.
I wanna know why Loki let us take him. He's not leading an army from here.
Have care how you speak. Loki is beyond reason, but he is of Asgard, and he's my brother.
He's adopted.
It's a stabilizing agent.
Well, that sounds exhausting. The rest of the raw materials, Agent Barton can get his hands on pretty easily. Only major component he still needs is a power source. A high energy density, something to kick start the cube.
Last night. The packet, Selvig's notes, the Extraction Theory papers. Am I the only one who did the reading?
Does Loki need any particular kind of power source?
Unless, Selvig has figured out how to stabilize the quantum tunneling effect.
Finally, someone who speaks English.
Is that what just happened? Tony and Banner shake hands. A glimmer in their eyes shines as the mutual respect for each other shows.
It's good to meet you, Dr. Banner. You're work on anti-electron collisions is unparalleled. And I'm a huge fan of the way you lose control and turn into an enormous green rage monster.
Let's start with that stick of his. It may be magical, but it works an awful lot like a HYDRA weapon.
Monkeys? I do not understand.
I do! I understood that reference. Tony rolls his eyes, while Cap looks proud of himself.
Shall we play, doctor?
If we bypass their mainframe and direct a reroute to the Homer cluster, we can clock this around six hundred teraflops.
 You know, you should come by STARK TOWERS sometime. Top ten floors, all R&D. You'd love it, it's candy land.
Well, I promise a stress free environment. No tension. No surprises. Suddenly, Tony pokes Banner with a MINIATURE ELECTRICAL PROD. Steve walks in on them, pissed at Tony.
Nothing?
 Hey! Are you nuts?
You really have got a lid on it, haven't you? What's your secret? Mellow jazz? Bongo drums? Huge bag of weed?
Is everything a joke to you?
Funny things are.
Threatening the safety of everyone on this ship isn't funny. No offense, doctor.
You're tiptoeing, big man. You need to strut.
And you need to focus on the problem, Mr. Stark.
You think I'm not? Why did Fury call us and why now? Why not before? What isn't he telling us? I can't do the equation unless I have all the variables.
You think Fury's hiding something?
He's a spy. Captain, he's the spy. His secrets have secrets. It's bugging him too, isn't it?
Doctor? A beat.
I heard it.
The Stark Tower? That big ugly ...building in New York?
That's just the prototype. I'm kind of the only name in clean energy right now.
I should probably look into that once my decryption programmer finishes breaking into all of SHIELD's secure files.
I'm sorry, did you say...?
Jarvis has been running it since I hit the bridge. In a few hours we'll know every dirty secret SHIELD has ever tried to hide. Blueberry?
Yet you're confused about why they didn't want you around?
An intelligence organization that fears intelligence? Historically, not possible.
I think Loki's trying to wind us up. This is a man who means to start a war, and if don't stay focused, he'll succeed. We have orders, we should follow them.
Following is not really my style.
 And you're all about style, aren't you?
Of the people in this room, which one is; A. wearing a spangly outfit, and B. not of use?
Just find the cube. Steve walks out of the lab. Still torn apart by the possibility, he walks away, towards the HULL of the ship.
That's the guy my dad never shut up about? Wondering if they shouldn't have kept him on ice.
What he's got is an ACME dynamite kit.
Uh-huh. Or you'll be suiting up like the rest of us.
You know, I've got a cluster of shrapnel, trying every second to crawl its way into my heart. REACTOR in his chest) This stops it. This little circle of light. It's part of me now, not just armor. It's a... terrible privilege.
Because I learned how.
Hey, I've read all about your accident. That much gamma exposure should have killed you.
 I guess we'll find out. Banner and Stark get back to work at their respective computers.
You just might.
Thank you. It's no accident Loki taking Erik Selvig. I dread what he plans for him once he's done. Erik is a good man.
They were better as they were. We pretend on Asgard that we're more advanced, but we...we come here battling like BILCHSTEIM.
BILCHSTEIM? You know; huge, scaly, big antlers. You don't have those?
They are repulsive, and they trample everything in their path. Thor walks over to the side of the ship and looks out the window, lamenting about what has happened and what may come.
When I first came to earth, Loki's rage followed me here and your people paid the price. And now again. In my youth I courted war.
I do not know. Loki's mind is far afield, it's not just power he craves, it's vengeance upon me. There's no pain that would prize his need from him.
What are you asking me to do?
Loki is a prisoner.
Uh...kind of been wondering the same thing about you.
And you'll get your cube back, no muss, no fuss. collection of SECRET FILES) What is PHASE 2? Suddenly, Steve drops a HYDRA ASSAULT RIFLE on the table causing Fury, Banner and Tony to turn around. Cap looks pissed.
PHASE 2 is SHIELD uses the cube to make weapons.
I'm sorry, Nick. Tony moves the computer screen towards Fury which shows plans of
What were you lying?
I was wrong, director. The world hasn't changed a bit. At that moment, Thor and Natasha walk into the lab. Natasha keeps her eyes right on Banner. Banner looks at her, PISSED.
 Me?
My people want nothing but peace with your planet.
Like you controlled the cube?
You're work with the Tesseract is what drew Loki to it, and his allies. It is the signal to all the realms that the earth is ready for a higher form of war.
A higher form?
Nuclear deterrent. `Cause that always calms everything right down.
Did you always give your champions such mistrust?
You speak of control, yet you court chaos.
Why shouldn't the guy let off a little steam?
You know damn well why! Back off!
Oh, I'm starting to want you to make me.
Big man in a suit of armor. Take that off, what are you?
Genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist.
I know guys with none of that worth ten of you. Yeah, I've seen the footage.
I think I would just cut the wire.
 Always a way out... You know, you may not be a threat, but you better stop pretending to be a hero.
A hero? Like you? You're a lab rat, Rogers. Everything special about you came out of a bottle!
Put on the suit, let's go a few rounds. Thor laughs at them.
You people are so petty... and tiny. Tony rubs his head. Moves away from Cap.
Doctor Banner... put down the scepter.
Got it. Banner puts down the scepter and walks over to the computer.
Located the Tesseract?
I can get there faster.
Look, all of us...
The Tesseract belongs on Asgard, no human is a match for it. Tony turns to leave, but Steve stops him.
You're not going alone!
You gonna stop me?
Put on the suit, let's find out.
I'm not afraid to hit an old man.
Put on the suit. At that moment Banner who's looking at the monitor notices something about the Tesseract.
Put on the suit!
Yep! Steve helps Tony up and out of the lab. Fury sits up, clutching his ribs. He puts on his EARPIECE.
Find engine three. I'll meet you there. Cap peels off as Tony approaches a tech room. Inside, Tony's IRON MAN suit stands waiting, lit above in all its glory.
Stark, I'm here!
Good. See what we got. Tony flies in his IRON MAN suit and gets close to the damaged engine.
I gotta get this super conducting cooling system back online before I can access the rotors and work on dislodging the debris.
I need you to get to that engine control panel and tell me which relays are in overload position. IRON MAN flies into giant cooling conductors. CAPTAIN AMERICA JUMPS over to the other side of the broken railing. CAPTAIN AMERICA gets himself to the control panel and opens it up. For a man who grew up as a YANK, what the fuck is this!
What's it look like in there?
It seems to run on some form of electricity.
Well, you're not wrong.
We are not your enemies, Banner! Try to think! HULK lifts his arm up, to Thor's surprise, and he SENDS HIM
Even if I clear the rotors, this thing won't re-engage without a jump. I'm gonna have to get in there and push.
Well if that thing gets up to speed, you'll get shredded!
Then stay in the control unit and reverse polarity long enough to disengage mag...
Speak English!
See that red lever? It'll slow the rotors down long enough for me to get out. Stand by it, wait for my word. CAPTAIN AMERICA looks over at the other side where he was. He sees the red lever and JUMPS towards it.
Yeah. Noticed. The rotors start propelling faster and faster as IRON MAN'S BOOSTERS get more and more bright. On the other side, CAPTAIN AMERICA continuously shoots at Barton's men. Blinking at the wrong moment, CAPTAIN AMERICA loses the upper hand and SLIDES off the railing, but grabs onto a LOOSE CABLE.
 NO! Thor CHARGES at his brother. Loki walks up to him and CROUCHES down to attack. THOR ONLY GOES THROUGH HIM. The false Loki dissipates into nothingness. THE REAL LOKI comes out from behind the cell door, which closes on THOR, locking him up. Loki smiles.
Nooo! Loki sends Agent Coulson against the wall. Agent Coulson slumps down, breathing fast. Loki makes his way to the control switch. He gives his brother one last look. Thor looks at him, hopeful. Loki opens the HATCH. Thor still hopes. LOKI HITS THE BUTTON AND
Cap, I need the lever!
Lever. Now! Tony lets go of the rotors. They spin by themselves. Tony is then caught in one. He is now fucked. IRON MAN slips into the rotors, getting chewed up.
Was he married?
No. There was a uh...cellist, I think.
I'm sorry. He seemed like a good man.
He was an idiot.
Why? For believing?
For taking on Loki alone.
He was doing his job.
He was out of his league. He should have waited. He should have...
Sometimes there isn't a way out, Tony.
 Right. How did that work for him?
Is this the first time you've lost a soldier?
WE ARE NOT SOLDIERS! I am not marching to Fury's fife!
Neither am I! He's got the same blood on his hands as Loki does. Right now we've got to put that aside and get this done. Now Loki needs a power source, if we can put together a list...

That's not the point.
That is the point. That's Loki's point. He hit us all right where we live. Why?
To tear us apart.
He had to conquer his greed, but he knows he has to take us out to win, right? That's what he wants. He wants to beat us and he wants to be seen doing it. He wants an audience.
Right, I caught his act at Stuttengard.
Yeah. That's just a preview, this is opening night. Loki's a full-tilt diva. He wants flowers, he wants parades, he wants a monument built in the skies with his name plastered...
Time to go.
I'll tell you on the way. Can you fly one of those jets? Barton walks out of the restroom. Looks at Cap.
You got a suit?
Then suit up.
Son... just don't.
Shut it down, Dr. Selvig.
Okay. IRON MAN aims his hands toward the CMS and FIRES. The energy from his boosters SHATTERS with a deafening CRACK! Selvig falls backwards. DOWN BELOW, CITIZENS OF NEW YORK look up at STARK TOWER. IRON MAN stares in disbelief at the CMS ... unharmed.
Skip the spinning rims. We're on the clock. TONY lands his SUIT and goes through the gauntlet and unsuits him. LOKI looks up at him, smiling. They proceed to walk into the penthouse.
Uh...actually, I'm planning to threaten you.
Yeah, it's seen a bit of mileage. You've got the blue stick of destiny. Would you like a drink?
No, no, no! Threatening. No drink? You sure? I'm having one.
 THE AVENGERS. It's what we call ourselves, sort of like a team. `EARTH'S MIGHTIEST HEROES' type of thing.
 Yeah, takes us a while to get any traction, I'll give you that one.
Not a great plan. When they come, and they will, they'll come for you. From underneath the bar table, Tony pulls on COLANTOTTE BRACELETS, a honing device.
We have a HULK.
You're missing the point. There's no throne, there is no version of this, where you come out on top. Maybe your army comes and maybe it's too much for us, but it's all on you. Because if we can't protect the Earth, you can be damned well sure we'll avenge it.
Well, performance issues. You know? In anger, Loki GRABS Tony by the throat and FLINGS him across the room.
Jarvis. Anytime now. Loki grabs Tony by the throat again.
And there's one other person you pissed off! His name was Phil. Loki raises the scepter. IRON MAN FIRES at Loki, sending him on his ass.
Right. Army. IRON MAN flies up towards the portal. From his shoulders, a miniature multiple rocket launcher, pops out and FIRES. Like the JERICHO MISSILE, several targets are taken down unlike no missile. It's useless. THOUSANDS OF CHITAURI FLY OUT. IRON MAN flies towards the city.
Loki! Turn off the Tesseract or I'll destroy it!
So be it. Loki and Thor rush at each other. They and their weapons collide. The two battle -- Loki unleashing another pent-up rage and jealousy, Thor having no choice but to defend himself.
What, did you stop for drive-thru? Swing up PARK, I'm gonna lay 'em out for you.
Fine. Let's keep them occupied. IRON MAN heads back to the portal.
Stark, are you seeing this?
I'm seeing, still working on believing. Where's Banner? Has he shown up yet?
Just keep me posted. Jarvis, find me a soft spot. IRON MAN quietly flies behind and parallel with the CHITAURI
Look at this! Look around you! You think this madness will end with your rule?
No. We can. Together. Loki looks at his brother, showing a sign of hope. Then... Loki stabs Thor with a small knife. Thor keels over.
Those people need assistance down there. CHITAURI SOLDIERS that have landed near them and begin FIRING at them. BLACK WIDOW pulls both pistols and FIRES. Turns to Cap.
 You think you can hold them off?
I need men in these buildings. There are people inside that can run into the line of fire. You take them through the basement or through the subway. You keep them off the streets. I need a perimeter as far back as 39th.
 We got his attention. What the hell is step two?! IRON MAN flies away.
What's the story upstairs?
The powers surrounding the cube is impenetrable.
As a team.
I have unfinished business with Loki.
Save it. Loki's gonna keep this fight focused on us and that's what we need. Without him these things could run wild. We got Stark up top, he's gonna need us... Just then, BANNER ARRIVES ON A SMALL MOTORBIKE. Getting off, he looks around the city.
Stark? We got him.
Just like you said.
Then tell him to suit up. I'm bringing the party to you. IRON MAN comes out from behind a building. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN follows, impatiently.
Dr. Banner. Now might be a really good time for you to get angry.
Call it, Cap.
Alright, listen up. Until we can close that portal up there, we're gonna use containment. Barton, I want you on that roof, eyes on everything. Call out patterns and strays. Stark, you got the perimeter. Anything gets more than three blocks out, you turn it back or your turn it to ash.
Right. Better clench up, LEGOLAS. IRON MAN lifts HAWKEYE up to the building.
Thor, you've gotta try and bottleneck that portal. Slow them down. You've got the lightning. Light the bastards up. You and me, we stay here on the ground, keep the fighting here. And Hulk.SMASH.
Just try and keep them off the streets.
I will roger that. IRON MAN does so and leads towards TIGHT CORNERS and in HAWKEYE'S view, who fires arrow upon and arrow, EXPLODING the CHITAURI RIDERS. IRON MAN keeps leading CHITAURI RIDERS UNDER TUNNELS, THROUGH OPEN PARKING GARAGES. He looks back. None left.
Nice call. What else you got?
And he didn't invite me?
Our biggest guns couldn't touch it.
You wanna get up there, you're gonna need a ride.
Are you sure about this?
I'm on it.
Everyone! Clear out! CAPTAIN AMERICA flips over the SOLDIER, grabs his SHIELD and just as the BOMB is about to GO OFF, CHITAURI BOMBER dives for, trying to stop it, but it GOES OFF, sending CAPTAIN AMERICA through the window, landing very hard on a car. The civilians look up from below. They're okay.
JARVIS. You ever hear the tale of Jonah?
Jarvis, put everything we got into the thrusters!
You ready for another bout?
What? You gettin' sleepy?
Do it!
Stark, these things are still coming!
I got a nuke coming in, it's gonna blow in less than a minute. And I know just where to put it.
 Save the rest for return, J.
You might as well.
Close it.
 Son of a gun! TIGHT ON IRON MAN: He keeps falling. And falling. And falling.
He's not slowing down. Thor swings Mjölnir around. Just as Thor flies up, THE HULK
What the hell? What just happened? Please tell me nobody kissed me?
 We won.
Alright. Hey. Alright. Good job, guys. Let's just not come in tomorrow. Let's just take a day. Have you ever tried shawarma? There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here. I don't know what it is, but I wanna try it.
We're not finished yet. A beat.
And then shawarma after.