It just turned itself on?
Sir, evacuation may be futile.
If we can't control the Tesseract's energy, there may not be a minimum safe distance.
Sir, is that really a priority right now?
Yes, sir. With me.
Who's that?
A lot of men still under, don't know how many survivors.
 Roger that.
I know how you wanted this evening to go. Believe me, this is better.
I thought General Soholob was in charge of the export business.
You really think I'm pretty? LUCHKOV slowly walks over to a table filled with tools. He picks up a pair of pliers. TALL THUG opens up her mouth wide open.
Are you kidding? I'm working!
I'm in the middle of an interrogation and this moron is giving me everything.
Look, you can't pull me out of this right now.
Let me put you on hold. She nods to LUCHKOV. As Luchkov comes to take the phone off her, Natasha HITS him with her leg and HEADBUUTS him. Like a spider, she stands up elegantly and starts ATTACKING TALL THUG by KICKBOXING him in the face. Still tied, she ROLLS over WEASELLY THUG after she trips him. She then STOMPS on TALL THUG foot with peg of the chair, then
Where's Barton now?
But he's alive.
Coulson, you know that Stark trusts me about as far as he can throw me.
Bozhe moi.
You know, for a man who's supposed to be avoiding stress, you picked a hell of a place to settle.
Then, what is it? Yoga?
Just you and me.
I did.
Natasha Romanoff.
No. No. Of course not. I'm here on behalf of SHIELD.
We never lost you, doctor. We've kept our distance, even helped keep some other interested parties off your scent.
Nick Fury seems to trust you. But now I need you to come in.
I'll persuade you.
You've been more than a year without an incident. I don't think you wanna break that streak.
Doctor, we're facing a potential global catastrophe.
This is the Tesseract. It has the potential energy to wipe out the planet. She shows him a photo of the Tesseract on her cell phone. Banner takes a closer look.
Well, he wants you to find it. It's been taken. It emits a gamma signature that's too weak for us to trace. There's no one that knows gamma radiation like you do. If there was, that's where I'd be.
Not that he's told me.
Talk to Fury, he needs you on this.
No one's gonna put you in a...
Stand down. We're good here.
Wow. So maybe our reactor takes over and it actually works?
How does it look?
Gotta go wider on the public awareness campaign. You need to do some press. I can do some more tomorrow. I'm working on the zoning for the next billboards.
Then get in here and I will. TONY arrives at his skyscraper penthouse and is in the process of taking off his IRON MAN suit through a hi-tech gauntlet of gadgets.
Levels are holding steady... I think.
Well, ha, I really wouldn't know now, would I?
No. All this came from that. Points to the energy in his chest plate.
Twelve percent?
Twelve percent? For my baby?
Oooooh.
You mean OUR elevator?
Not gonna be that subtle.
On the lease.
Phil! Come in.
Come on in, we're celebrating.
That's alright, `cause I love to be handed things. So, let's trade. She passes her glass of champagne to Coulson and takes the file from him, then takes her champagne glass back from Coulson and passes the file over to Stark.
Thank you.
Is this about The Avengers? Which I...I know nothing about.
I didn't know that either.
That I did know.
I was having twelve percent of a moment. This seems serious, Phil's pretty shaken.
What is all of this?
I'm going to take the jet to D.C. tonight.
You've got homework. You've got a lot of homework.
If you didn't?
You mean if you finished? Well, um...then... She whispers something in his ear. Tony GASPS. Coulson looks away in embarrassment.
Work hard. As Pepper leaves with Agent Coulson, Tony grabs the Tesseract in holograph form, worried.
Hi.
There was quite the buzz around here, finding you in the ice. I thought Coulson was gonna swoon. Did he ask you to sign his Captain America trading cards yet?
They're vintage, he's very proud. Without realizing, Banner doesn't notice them walking as he isnervous as hell. He moves around as people keep walking in hisway.
Gentlemen, you may wanna step inside in a minute. It's gonna get a little hard to breath. Suddenly the HELICARRIER starts SHAKING as it prepares to fly "sail."
We're at lock, sir.
That's still not gonna find them in time.
You're gonna love it, Doc. We got all the toys.
Loki, drop the weapon and stand down. Like greased lighting, Loki sends a BLAST of blue at the QUINJET. Natasha MANEUVERS it just in time, giving Cap the time to throw his shield at Loki. They both begin to DUKE IT OUT. Loki FLINGS Cap to the ground. Cap then throws his shield, but Loki SWATS it way. Cap, using all the moves of a boxer, is KNOCKED down by Loki. Standing over him, he points the scepter's tip on his helmet.
The guy's all over the place. Suddenly, AC/DC's "Shoot to Thrill" overdrives the QUINJET'S speakers.
Not a word.
Where's this coming from? Thunder RUMBLES overhead. Loki stares out the window intently.
Another Asgardian?
I'd sit this one out, Cap.
These guys come from legends, they're basically gods.
Loki has him under some kind of spell, along with one of ours.
He killed eighty people in two days.
He turns. Tony looks around the monitors and places a BUTTON SIZE HACKING IMPLANT under Fury's desk, without anyone noticing.
When did you become an expert in thermonuclear astrophysics?
But you figured I'd come.
I wanna know what you've done to Agent Barton.
And once you've won. Once you're king of the mountain. What happens to his mind?
Love is for children. I owe him a debt.

Not let you out.
Regimes fall every day. I tend not to weep over that, I'm Russian... or was.
It's really not that complicated. I've got red in my ledger, I'd like to wipe it out.
 You're a monster.
So, Banner... that's your play.
 Loki means to unleash the Hulk. Keep Banner in the lab, I'm on my way. Send Thor as well.
You wanna think about removing yourself from this environment, doctor?
Loki's manipulating you.
You didn't come here because I bat my eyelashes at you.
Turn up that engine! Number 3 engine is down! Can we get a run in? Talk to me.
We lose one more engine, we won't be. Somebody's got to get inside and patch that engine.
Doctor... Bruce, you gotta fight it. This is just what Loki wants. We're gonna be okay. Listen to me. Two approaching SHIELD soldiers arrive to check on her. She furiously WAVES them away. They bolt out of there.
We're gonna be okay. Right? I swear on my life I will get you out of this, you will walk away, and never...
 Bruce. Banner suddenly starts transforming into the HULK and gives Natasha one last knowing look. Natasha STRUGGLES FREE of the rubble. She stops. The HULK, sensing her, turns his head and puts on a face of a disturb monster. Natasha JOLTS up the stairs with the HULK chasing after her. Natasha maneuvers like a black widow should. She rolls under a turbine, starts to crawl within the maze of pipes. The HULK pulls them out from above the catwalk. Natasha falls through under the catwalks and quickly and stealthily escapes. The HULK lets out a ROAR OF RAGE unlike anything. PRIMAL. Not human.
 GRENADE! The grenade goes off, sending her down the steps. Fury FIRES a shot at the open entrance. He moves over behind the side of the entrance. A handful of Barton's men enter. Watchful, ready, waiting... Fury steps out, his GUN drawn. A SHOOT OUT and HAND-TO-HAND ensues, but Fury is unable to stop one of them, which is why he is shot in the head by Agent Hill, who looks hot and sexy holding her gun.
Sir, the Hulk will tear this place apart!
Escort 606, proceed to 270 MAIN SHUTTLE! Don't get too close.
This is Agent Romanoff. I copy. Natasha SPRINGS up and runs for Barton.
Clint, you're gonna be alright.
We don't have that long, it's gonna take time.
You know that I do.
Cognitive recalibration. I hit you really hard in the head.
Don't. Don't do that to yourself, Clint. This is Loki. This is monsters and magic and nothing we were ever trained for.
Yeah. I don't suppose you know where?
We gotta stop him.
I don't know. Whoever's left.
Now you sound like you. Natasha sits next to her partner and friend.
He didn't, I just...
I've been compromised. I got red in my ledger. I'd like to wipe it out.
Go where?
Sir.
Those cards, they were in Coulson's locker, not in his jacket.
Yes, sir.
See them. HAWKEYE BANKS the jet towards STARK TOWER. Aims the MINIGUN at Loki. Loki AIMS the scepter at the QUINJET and FIRES A BLAST OF ENERGY. Thor gets to his feet, TACKLING Loki down hard. THE QUINJET is soon caught on fire. HAWKEYE maneuvers one wing of the jet. They SPIN and SLOW. DROPPING OUT OF THE AIR AS IT PASSES OVER SKYSCRAPERS. Then... they SLAM into the street.
We got this. It's good. Go!
Just like BUDAPEST all over again!
How do we do this?
I've seen worse.
No. We could use a little worse.
I... I don't see how that's a party... IRON MAN SWOOPS down the street. The CHITAURI LEVIATHAN also swoops down, BARRELING down the street like a FREIGHT TRAIN that keeps building and building its intensity.Banner looks behind. Cap looks at him. Banner begins to walk towards the monster.
Guys.
Sir. The council is on. OH SHIT. Fury presses his screen.
Captain, none of this is gonna mean a damn thing if we don't close that portal.
Well, maybe it's not about guns.
I got a ride. I could use a lift though. BLACK WIDOW backs up giving herself a running start. Cap lifts and angles his SHIELD.
Yeah. It's gonna be fun.
Oh. You. LOKI FOLLOWS IN HOT PURSUIT. They RACE DOWNWARD, trailing between buildings. They RACE MADLY, driving and dodging.
Doctor.
It's not your fault. You didn't know what you were doing.
Loki's scepter.
Sir, we have a bird in motion! Anyone on the deck, we have a rogue bird! We need to shut it down! Repeat! Take off is not authorized!
I can close it! Can anybody hear me? I can shut the portal down!
Come on, Stark...
Sir, how does it work now? They've gone their separate ways, some pretty extremely far. We get into a situation like this again, what happens then?
You really sure about that?
Why?