I've got the orbital data and SV clock corrections for each satellite that gets the signal. That'll make my reading as solid as the Precise Positioning Service that only the D.O.D. can use. We're talkin' 100 meter horizontal accuracy, 156 meter vertical accuracy, .340 nanoseconds time accuracy.
Why can't he talk like a person?
...Because he's not.
I do need one more thing, Charlie.
What's that?
Someone to turn the goddamn homing device on. No signal, no score.
Where're the Italians?
Patience.
What's that shit?
You wanna read something. Read between the lines.
Lemme see that book.
Hi, sweetie.
I'm sending you something.
No. But it's sparkly.
I'm having it sent to you from the store.
Be a long trip. I'm in Genoa.
Something like that.
I think I've paid my P.O. my last visit. I liked the guy, but we never really connected.
After this, I swear to you, I am.
Everything's going to be fine. I've got to go now. I love you. Bye.
Italians?
Not yet.
Don't worry, they'll come through. You can trust these guys.
I trust everyone. It's the devil inside them that I don't trust. Got a sec?
My office.
How you feeling, boss?
Fine. I'm fine, fine.
You know what fine, stands for, don't you? Fucked-up, Insecure, Neurotic, and Emotional.
You've become quite the philosopher since you quit drinking.
You don't like me sober?
No, I'm glad. Makes you a better thief.
For after the haul.
Hope I get to fire it up. If Steve's Italians are a no-show, it's three months prep down the shitter and I've dragged you out of retirement for nothing.
This is kinda nice. You being the boss with all the worries, me just along for the ride.
Ain't you sweet...
Your Italians.
Yup. Dixie cups.
Dixie cups?
I toss 'em away if there's a problem down the road.
For those about to rock, we salute you.
Yeah.
Let's get rich.
Can you chill out back there? You'd make a hummingbird nervous.
Sweet Jesus.
"That for which all virtue is sold. And almost every vice -- gold."
My name is John and I'm a very rich alcoholic. And I'm going to live my life one very rich day at a time.
You planned this one down to a t, kid. It's a gift. You saw the big picture, made contingencies, covered the angles...
Shit, you made thirty million dollars in gold drop out of sight without holding a gun. Who else could've pulled that off?
You could've. I had big shoes to fill.
Fill the shoes but don't follow the footprints.
What're you talking about? You've lived the life.
My life's been nothing but fake IDs, fake business cards and divorce papers. This is the only thing that's real.
Stella's a beautiful girl.
She's amazing. And I spent half her childhood in prison. This is a once in a lifetime haul, Charlie. Bring down the curtain after this one. Make a new life. Find someone amazing and be there for her.
Shit.
Anyone acts stupid and his brains go on the windshield.
What the hell do you think you're doing?
Sorry Charlie. But I want the box of Cracker Jack all to myself.
You're not thinking this through. It's a stupid move.
Think so? Well you're the brilliant one. The Master Planner. Isn't that so, John?
You bet on the wrong horse.
We'll hunt you down. You're gonna regret this.
No regrets, Dixie cup.
Hi, Stella.
Yeah. You did.
I found him.
I can tell you where he is.
Are you sure?
He's in Los Angeles.
The gold bricks he stole from us were minted in Singapore and decorated with the face of a Balinese girl. I've had my tentacles out and got a call from a friend of mine and your father's, Philly Steak.
He got word from an L.A. connection named Skinny Pete that a gold dealer has been buying bricks with the Balinese girl on them, three or four at a time.
I tracked Steve down to an address in the Hollywood Hills. He's changed his last name to Frezelli. And get this: he had a Worthington 1000 installed in the house before he even moved in. We both know that you don't install a Worthington 1000 unless you have something precious to guard.
We boosted that gold from a terrorist group that was about to trade it for bio-weapons. Now that doesn't exactly make us Robin Hood, but maybe in our own little way we were doing a good deed. Problem is, no one in my crew can handle that safe. And I need someone I can trust.
What I heard is that you have your father's touch. And he was the only safecracker I knew who could open a Worthington 1000.
You're John Bridger's daughter. And this is our chance to set things right.
No, it won't.
How'd it go with the chick?
I'm working on it.
I don't want her on the crew, Charlie.
Gotta have her. Important piece of the puzzle.
There has to be someone else. What about Bill Huchins?
Doing ten long at Levinworth.
Red O'Reilly?
Chemo.
Martin Hernandez?
Found Jesus.
I don't want a civilian to screw this up.
She has the skill. And the motivation.
Exactly. She's emotional. You know what happens when emotion gets into it.
It's emotional for all of us at this point. Don't kid yourself.
It's all in my patented sideways glance. Like this...
I hit each woman on the jury with one of these. We make contact. And I know exactly what they're doing. Undressing me with their eyes.
The case is all but won. That's why in jury selection I choose as many women as possible. Except lesbians, of course. I can tell in sixty seconds if they're a lesbian. Want to know how I know?
Precisely. Like that waitress right there. See? She's looking at me right below my belt. Definitely not a lesbian.
I am fly. And I'm da bomb. Just wait until later tonight.
You should be. Moron. What the hell's wrong with you?
Where's the manager? Richard Worth is not paying to have his suit cleaned. Damn. I'm going to... I don't believe this.
I think your date's going pretty well, what do you think?
What do you mean? I come here all the time.
Sure. Lawyers, Judges, my kind of crowd. See that gentleman there, he sentenced me to 90 days in county once. We need to talk.
Hey, I paid valet parking prices to get in here, not to mention a twenty spot to the busboy to spill that drink on Mister Zipper.
Actually, you paid for it.
Didn't notice it was me who bumped into you earlier, did you? Anyway, I was hoping we could get to know each other a little better before we leave for Los Angeles. I already booked your flight.
I have no idea what you just said, but I like the sound of it.
Charlie --
I'm beginning to worry about this whole relationship.
John wasn't just a man I crewed up with, he was my friend, he was the closest thing to a father I ever had. I wish to God I could bring him back. But all I can do is go after this guy, the guy that killed him, and hit him where he lives.
Everything alright, Stella?
Can I help you with something?
Oh, sorry. I was just undressing you with my eyes.
Hello.
I see Drive Defensively is your motto.
By the way you drive, I'm not surprised you named your car after a bottle of whiskey. Left.
Another left.
The possibilities are endless.
We're a little early. I didn't expect us to get here quite that fast. There...
That's Lyle. Gearhead. He's who really invented Napster...
Half-Ear. Explosives. He lost fifty percent of his hearing in the fifth grade.
Handsome Rob. Premier wheel man. He once drove all the way to L.A. just so he could set the record for longest freeway chase.
I've been a thief since I had baby teeth.
Cough it up, Charlie!
This is Stella. She's working with us on this one. IDs?
Melvin Lisp? Could I -- just once -- have a cool name?
Try 'Deal A Meal'.
I don't even have a cool nickname.
Enough of this sewing-circle shit. Phones.
We travel to L.A. separately.
You still haven't told us the most important thing. What exactly is the job, Charlie? And who exactly is she?
This is Stella Bridger. And we're finishing the job that we started in Italy.
We need an in to get a video blueprint of the interior. We're not going into this place blind. Half-Ear, you take the first surveillance shift. Who goes in, who goes out, levels of security, you know the drill.
I also want audio surveillance on his phone.
I'll hack into the phone company's central office remote observance monitoring system and fool it into thinking there's a legal tap on the line. Reroute the digital copies of his calls to our own listening post.
How long?
I'll burn through the night, have it up and running before morning.
We need to know how long to get from the house to Union Station downtown.
No problemo.
Stella. How much time will you need with the safe?
It's not the same as opening a safe for the cops. Your heart will be pounding in your ears. Perspiration on your fingertips. It's a whole different ball game.
player) Advent Home Navigator Hybrid System. Monitors 132 points for intrusion, fire, and environmental hazards. Best way around it is to get a back door password, trip the alarm during the heist, then call it in as a false alarm.
recorder) 15:25. There he is. He's gained 15 to 20 pounds living off our money. And Handsome Rob, you're going to be pissed when you see his wheels.
recorder) Housekeeper leaves at 17:30.
Is the camera off?
Where's a grenade launcher when you need one?
Doesn't matter what time it is. It's either bad traffic, peak traffic, or slit-your-wrists traffic.
I'm sure it's ideal for carrying a ton of gold, genius.
What's your guesstimate?
If we had all green lights, fourteen minutes. But in the twenty times I've done it, the average is thirty- two minutes, with a top time of fifty minutes.
Then we'll travel like Rockefeller.
When cars first started catching on, workers on tall ladders would use these swiveling colored boards for traffic signals. Now whenever Rockefeller would take the drive from his mansion to his office on Wall Street, the workers would make sure that he got green boards all the way.
How do we get all green lights?
Lyle?
Let me see what I can do.
We still need an in to get the video blueprint.
Carpet cleaners? Gutter cleaners? Flower delivery?
We'll never get by the guard unless they're certain it's legit. I'm thinking cable TV. We cut his cable, he calls the cable company. We show up. Send a cable technician into the house with a pinhole video camera while we get a feed through an RF antenna.
Who plays cable technician? Steve thinks we're all dead.
Are you up for it?
I'm telling you. He claims he named it Napster because his hair is so nappy underneath that cap of his. But I know the real reason. It's because I was NAPPING when he stole the idea from me. I should've been on the cover of Wired magazine.
Would you clam up. You'd give a woodpecker a headache.
I'm the Napster.
Okay. You're the Napster. Heads up: cable chick.
Becky. Nice name. I wonder what she calls the other one.
And it's such a mystery why you don't have a girlfriend.
I had a girlfriend. Unfortunately even though the relationship ceased in an objective reality, it's still going on in my mind. That woman's lived in here rent-free for four years.
Okay. All we need now is a work shirt like this one and a service truck like that one. You think Stella will be able to pull it off?
I have my doubts, but there's no talking to Charlie.
Maybe he's been inserting his hard drive into her software. Clouds the judgment.
He knows better than to mix business with pleasure. car) Only I'm allowed to do that.
Where you going?
To get a work shirt and a service truck.
The cable's out. See if you can get someone over here to fix it'.
Whoa. I've never heard the Muzak version of Purple Haze before.
When's the appointment?
Thursday between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.
Yes, I'm calling from Adelphia Cable. I understand your service is out and an appointment was set up for Thursday.
Well we have a technician working in your area who finished with an appointment earlier than expected. Will someone be there for the next hour?
Our technician will see you then. Have a nice day.
Let's check the camera.
Stella, you're going patriotic today.
He's got cable lines in the kitchen, living room, bedroom and a cable modem on the computer in the office. Try to get a 360 look at each room. And walk slowly or the image will streak.
I printed these up to look like paperwork from Adelphia. When you're done, ask him to sign and date the bottom.
How you doing?
You know what fine, stands for? Fucked- up, Insecure --
Girls girls girls.
Y'got a great job.
Should we hang here? Check out the dancers?
No, but I take a whizz off the deck sometimes.
It's all right. They won't bother you now.
I'm Steve.
Yeah. Course. This way.
I'll show you.
The cable guy who hooked this up weighed about 300 pounds, didn't wear any underwear, and his pants slung a little too low if you know what I mean.
Is it fixed?
Perfect.
Have we met before?
You read my mind.
I know what you meant. This might seem a little sudden, but... would you like to have dinner with me?
Why? Is there some kind of cable- rule against dating customers?
Then I guess I'll have to sabotage my cable over and over again until you get to know me better.
Look, I'm just talking about dinner. Friday night. It's no big deal. If you don't like me, you never have to see me again. You know I'm not going to stop until you say yes.
I know it was tough in there.
I know. When Steve leaves Friday night, we go in. By the time he realizes you've stood him up, we'll be long gone with the gold.
The guy makes Jabba the Hut look like a spokesman for the Subway Sandwiches' diet.
I'm trying not to.
Looks like that went without a hitch.
Lyle, what's the distance from the front door to the vault?
Lyle?
He only answers to The Napster now.
I'm not calling you The Napster.
You call him Half-Ear.
And him, Handsome Rob.
That's only cause he is Handsome Rob.
And I'm The Napster.
How far? The Napster.
Five hundred yards.
So here's the riddle. How do we get over a ton of gold from the vault to the getaway car?
Only six feet.
Minis?
We'll need three to hold the gold.
I'd say you're a Maserati 250 S. Just 4 cylinders but can go 0 to 60 in 4.2.
Never seen 'em before in my life.
And I'm in a hurry, okay?
That a fact?
And I'd love to hear more about it, but like I said...
On its way?
Your cousin?
He's on his way?
The tape's off?
Yevhen. Didn't I tell you, many times, that I never wanted to meet with anyone but you?
And a middleman is supposed to stay in the middle.
What you are, is a Dixie cup.
How are our matchbox cars?
Souped.
Do I get to drive one?
No.
Why not?
Because you can't navigate your way out of a parking lot. Here's your ride.
But he ran into me.
He's not driving either. You ever got a speeding ticket?
You drive. I drive. Charlie drives.
I got us spots for three cars on a car carrier and five first class seats. Train 59 from Union Station to New Orleans.
What's the word on Rockefeller?
The Traffic Control Center is on the top floor of a building on Olympic and Grand. They get their data from pavement loop detectors and video image vehicle detectors. That info is fused together by specially designed algorithms to predict traffic conditions and control the traffic lights. So all I have to do now is change the data by creating my own algorithm.
What can I do to help?
I need to hard-wire into the mainframes.
B4 X TTratio, where Bi are Fisher's linear discriminant function coefficients, SpdRat is the speed ratio, and TTratio is the travel time ratio.
I have no idea what you're doing. Just do it fast.
We own this place.
Those tits'd make Dracula rise from his coffin at high-noon.
You're too generous.
And I'm the Shell Answer Man. A guy who works the counter at your cousin's shop told me that someone named Skinny Pete had been asking around about gold bricks with the face of a Balinese girl on them. Same gold bricks your cousin was buying.
I thought you'd want a shot at him first.
Yeah.
Are you making this shit up?
Charlie.
Yeah?
Steve called to confirm a 7:30 reservation at Ago's. And as for your getaway, not even Rockefeller had it so good.
Radio check.
Got cha, boss.
Check.
For those about to rock, we salute you.
This is it, guys. Moment of truth.
Are you hear for the Baxter party, sir?
Shit. Stella?
You'll have to fake it. Laugh at his jokes. You need him to ask you out again.
So here's what I have lined up for after dinner. We'll go to Club Deep. The Ferrari always gets me to the front of the line. We'll do a little dancing...
Why the curfew?
I understand. You have nothing to worry about. You can trust me.
That's an interesting saying.
There's only person I've ever heard say that. Used to say it all the time.
A man named John Bridger. Where did you pick up that phrase?
John Bridger was a thief. And he had a daughter. About your age. He told me that she took over a safe and lock company that he used as a front.
No wonder I liked you right away. Just like I liked your old man, right up until the moment I shot him in the head. Now tell me who you're working with and tell me the plan. Do it now or we'll go for a ride and I'll break every bone in your body.
Something wrong, Steve? You look like you want to call Ghostbusters.
Fine by me. But it's you that has the problem.
How do you figure?
You've just blown the one thing you had going in your favor, the element of surprise. And I was surprised. Jesus Christ when I saw all you guys come out of the woodwork. For a minute I thought maybe you were ghosts. But you're screwed now. Half-Ear) Did you figure out how to take care of my security guard? I'll hire five more. You know how to bypass my alarm system? I'll have a new one installed tomorrow. Does it tear you up inside seeing what car I drive? I'll buy a matching one in red. You think you can crack my safe? You'll end up the same way as your dad. smiles) Looks like Good Time Charlie's got the blues.
You can wear that shit-eating grin on your face, but I know under that Versace shirt you're in a cold sweat. And you're not going to sleep a minute tonight. Cause you thought you'd gotten away with it free and clear. You thought you'd gotten rid of us. You're the one who's screwed. Right to the wall.
Give it your best shot. I'll outsmart you every step of the way. And this time, I'll bury you myself.
Get more guards. Change the alarm. Buy a dozen Ferraris. We'll still be here. Sleep tight.
Well we scared him alright. He's flying the coop. His security guard called Brink's Armored Car Service to confirm a 5 p.m. pick up at his house, then JetClub to confirm a MD11 cargo plane departing from the Imperial Terminal at LAX at 8 p.m.
Confirmed? How'd we miss the first calls?
They must have been cellular. The cargo plane is being chartered to Mexico City.
Only place with worse smog and traffic than L.A.
Not so fast. This is good news for us.
Good news?
Sometimes when you're up to your ass in alligators you forget that you started off trying to drain the swamp.
Meaning what the fuck?
We've been trying to get to the gold in the safe. Now the safe is coming to us. We'll boost it in transit.
Charlie. He could take a dozen different routes to the airport and we have no idea which one. We can't take out an armored truck during rush hour.
We're already set to do it. Napster: how would you like to create the biggest traffic jam in the history of Los Angeles?
Keep talking.
You gridlock every route except the one we choose. Force the truck to go exactly where we want it to go.
But where do we want it? We can't shoot it out with armed guards in a Brink's. We'd lose. And even if we pulled it off, the cops would be all over us, chasing us all the way to Union Station. We're outmanned and outgunned.
But not outsmarted.
We'll do it like the Italian job. We'll make thirty million in gold drop out of sight.
Who else has this number?
Hello?
Philly Steak. Do what?
Clip him?
What're you talking about? We didn't clip anybody.
Why does he think that?
Do you know how to get in touch with him?
Maybe there's a way we can play this to our advantage.
Still hope for that Nobel Prize.
No shit. I thought you dropped out of high school.
How'd you manage that, all the jobs we've been pulling?
Good for you. That's a real feather in your cap.
Secret's safe with me.
Working on the Metro Rail system. Almost ready.
Everything's quiet here. Over.
You okay?
Now?
Take all the time you need.
Problemo.
What is it?
He's brought in three identical armored trucks.
Shit. Decoys. It's like a shell game on wheels.
How can I reroute the truck if I don't know which truck to reroute?
Three Brink's trucks are leaving with motorcycle escorts, plus Steve in his Ferrari.
How're we going to figure out which truck has the gold?
You can monitor the traffic video cameras from your laptop, right?
Yeah.
Where's the first camera the trucks will go past?
Cahuenga Boulevard. They all have to cross that.
The weight of the gold will lower the suspension on the truck.
Lines up with the top of the sign. Next...
First two are the same.
That's our truck! License plate AWP82092.  EXT. CAHUENGA - SAME TIME  We see the truck with the California plate AWP82092. OUR VIEW RISES UP until we're looking at an AERIAL VIEW as the three armored trucks and their motorcycles fan out in three different directions, with the Ferrari going in a fourth direction.
Gridlock time.
What the hell?
Opening up a space on North Highland.
He's taking it...
I now command you to turn left.
I've got it on Hollywood Boulevard. Time to slow down.
Sonovabitch.
Gentlemen, start your engines.
Give us the flag when you're ready.
Shutting down the rail as we speak.
Tunnel's clear. Go!
Coming into position...
Five... Four...
Three...
Nice work.
Let's get our gold.
The truck's in the Metro Rail. Where does the Blue Line go back above ground?
Stella?
Yeah.
Don't you want to see what's inside?
Trust me. You wanna look.
Split up!
If you don't like how I'm driving, get off the damn sidewalk.
What's wrong with you, you stupid- ass, son of a bitch, dickhead...
What? You want a piece of me? C'mon, dumbshit. Bring it on. I'll be pulling peanuts out of your asshole --
Shit! Shit! You shot me in the foot!
Where are you going?
How about far, far away?
Going up?
I want to make a toast. Cause there's somebody missing here today, and we all know who it is.
To John Bridger. The most brilliant master planner of them all. We wish he was with us.
Who are you?
I never knew anyone named Yevhen.
Please. Don't shoot me. Please...
Thank you. Thank God.
New IDs.
Simon Quackenbush? Could I -- just once -- have a cool name?
Did you get what you wanted?
It was good doing business with you.
Is this seat taken?
We did it.
There's something I've been meaning to ask you, Stella. But I've just been so busy lately, what with the explosion, car chase, Ukrainians and all.
It's about that thing you said to me back in Philadelphia.
You said that you can't have a relationship with a pickpocket, gold robber, or any kind of thief.
Do you still believe that?
Well I was wondering... What about a retired pickpocket, gold robber, thief?