Listen to this -- the entire work force of the state of Virginia had to have solitaire removed from their computers --
-- because they hadn't done any work in six weeks.
You know what this is, you know what we're seeing here? We're seeing the end of Western civilization as we know it.
You think that machine is your friend, but it's not. I'm late.
Sushi.
Mmmmmhmmm --
Am I going?
Can't I just give them money? That's the cause? Free Albanian writers? I'm for that.
All right, I'll go. You're late.
Morning.
As far as I'm concerned, the Internet is just another way to be rejected by a woman.
Getting a date is harder.
The electrical contractor called. His truck hit a deer last night, he won't be in 'til tomorrow. The shelves are late because the shipment of pine had beetles. And there's some question about whether we're installing the stairs in the right spot --
That sounds great.
Testing one two three four.
Is the electrician here?
I just told you -- he hit a deer.
I hear nothing. Not a sound on the city streets, just the beat of my own heart. I think that's the way it goes. Something like that.
Did you and Patricia get engaged?
Engaged? Are you crazy?
I thought you liked Patricia --
I love Patricia. Patricia's amazing. Patricia makes coffee nervous. Are we still on schedule?
We open two weeks before Thanksgiving.
I guess we should announce ourselves soon. Tell people we're coming.
This is the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The minute they hear they'll be lining up --  -- to picket --
-- the big bad --
--chain store --
-- that destroys --
-- everything we hold dear. But we'll seduce them with our square footage and our deep armchairs and our amazingly swift checkout lines and our discounts and our...
They hate us in the beginning, but we get them in the end. Meanwhile we should just put up a sign -- Coming soon, a Foxbooks Superstore and The End of Western Civilization As We Know It.
Kevin and I are both a little concerned about the neighborhood response -- couch) What is this fabric? Does it have a name?
Gillian selected it.
Oh, great, congratulations, Dad. Why?
Love.
I have a very sad announcement to make. City Books on 23rd Street is going under ...  Nelson, Shuyler, and Joe high-five each other.
And I'm buying their entire stock -- architecture, New York history -- for the new store.
Whatever it costs, it won't be as much as this exquisite mohair episode. We're also going to have a section on West Side Writers --
Readers. They're called readers.
One mystery store. Sleuth, on 86th and Amsterdam. And a children's bookstore. The Shop Around the Corner. Been there forever.
Who's that?
You wrote her letters?
Wait. I've heard of it. It was a means of communication before I was born.
George Pappas.
No. I didn't go out.
. I had one. I never believed in them, but I just had one.
is where you get love suddenly, bang. A thunderbolt.
I don't know her name, or anything about her. I may never see her again.
I won't care.
And Christina's making fun of me.
I don't know. She was standing outside my building with the police and the reporters.
Someone died.
I have no idea about that either. They found her on the roof.
Oh. One other thing.
But they discount.
When you are finished with Foxbooks, the Shop Around the Corner is going to be responsible for reversing the entire course of the Industrial Revolution.
Hey --
What?
Listen to it. Just listen--
The Olympia Report deluxe Electric Report. As in gunshot.
Now listen to this.
The gentle and soothing lullaby of a piece of machinery so perfect --
I needed a backup.
I might, I might. So what?
I'll stop. I'll try. I probably can't. I see one and my knees go weak. Anyway, what were you starting to say?
Before.
Come on.
All you really do is this incredibly noble thing --
Kathleen --
You are a lone reed.
You are a lone reed waving in the breeze standing strong and tall in the corrupt sands of commerce.
Hello. Annabel, how are you today?
Hey, big guy --
Hello, Gillian.
Who is this?
I'm sorry to hear that.
That is so wise. Remember that, Annabel.
Excellent, Matt. Good work. You can have the day off. I'll take over from here. You must be late for something. Volunteer work at the Henry Street Settlement. Packing bandages for Bosnian refugees. A course in Chinese literature at Columbia.
The illustrations are hand-tipped, which is why --
It costs so much.
so much.
It's true. Annabel is my aunt. Aren't you, Aunt Annabel?
Annabel is my grandfather's daughter. And Matt is my father's son. We are an American family.
Who are you?
Joe. Just call me Joe. We'll take these books.
You're going to come back again, aren't you?
Of course.
This is why we're never going to go under. Our customers are loyal.
her mouth) -- likes to buy at discount. Don't tell anyone that, Annabel, it's nothing to be proud of --
Matt, look at this dinosaur book. Wouldn't you like a dinosaur book? Annabel, maybe you could read this to Matt while I wrap things up here. them quickly) Sit down, read, and don't listen to anything I say.
And the dinosaur book too.
You have, and you've made me feel...
Lucky guess.
How old is your daughter now?
We ready?
I saw him. I actually saw him.
I can't believe it. I saw William Spungeon.
Maybe he's in Mexico, but today he was in New York. The most brilliant and reclusive novelist in the history of the world is here, in this neighborhood. He may be living on this very block.
I was on the subway --
So I followed him.
Do you know what this is worth?
What I was thinking as I was trailing him was that eventually I would have the courage to say hello to him, you know, not in a horrible, intrusive or slavering fan-slash-acolyte kind of way, but more like, "Hi." "How ya doing?" "Have you ever thought about trading up in the sock area?" "Who knows, maybe he's read my work -- and then we'd become friends, and eventually I'd introduce him to you -- you know how much he loves children's books, there's a whole long section in Relativity's Smile about The Wizard of Oz -- and then maybe he'd come out of hiding so he could help save the store.
From Foxbooks. I mean, if things got tough, he could help rally support --
I don't even know why you would say that?
There's enough business for us all.
You're more than fine, you're absolutely fine.
Hey, Vince. Congratulations. You know Kathleen Kelly.
Guess who I saw today on the subway? William Spungeon.
Absolut on the rocks.
Hi.
Of course I remember you.
Good. She's good. I have to deliver this. I have a very thirsty date. She's part camel.
And you're Kathleen.
F-O-X.  KATHLEEN God, I didn't realize. I didn't know who you --
-- were with. "I didn't know who you were with."
It's from the Godfather. When the movie producer realizes that Tom Hagen is the emissary of Vito Corleone --
Why would I spy on you?
The entrance to our store is around the corner. There is no other way to say it. It's not the name of our store, it's where it is. You don't own "around the corner."
Twinkle lights?
Look, the reason I came into your store is that I was spending the day with Annabel and Matt. I like to buy them a present when I see them because I'm one of those guys who likes to buy his way into the hearts of children who are his relatives. There was only one place to buy children's books in the neighborhood -- although that will not always be the case, and it was yours, and it is a charming little bookstore. You probably sell $250,000 worth of book a year --
I'm in the book business.
Oh, I see, and we're the Price Club. Only instead of a ten-gallon can of olive oil for $3.99 that won't even fit into your kitchen cabinet, we're selling cheap books. Me a spy. Absolutely. And I managed to get my hands on a secret printout of the sales figures of a bookstore so inconsequential and yet full of its own virtue that I was instantly compelled to rush over and check it out for fear it would drive me out of business --  Kathleen stares at him. She's speechless.
Hi. I'm Frank Navasky --
-- Joe Fox.
Joe Fox? Inventor of the Superstore, enemy of the mid-list novel, destroyer of City Books -- tell me something: How do you sleep at night?
Yes.
And this is Kathleen Kelly --
You liked my piece. God, I'm flattered. You know you write these things and you think someone's going to mention them and then the whole week goes by and the phone doesn't ring, and you think Oh, God, I'm a fraud, a failure --
Oh sure, it's passed through my head. Something really relevant for today like the Luddite movement in 19th century England.
Patricia --
I really like Patricia Eden. She's a very nice person.
She needs educating, that's all.
She's hopelessly driven by money and power, but there's a hope for anyone who's that familiar with my work --
I'm not really tired.
No pickets, no demonstrations.
The neighborhood loves us.
It's early yet. School isn't out. And there's that children's bookstore nearby --  SCHUYLER Cecilia's store --
Her daughter's --
The joy of rent control. Six room for $450 a month.
heaven) Yes.
Do I live alone? Yes I do. Do you live alone?
I don't know. I have no idea.
I can't.
Oh, hello.
Do you need some money?
Hi. Rose. Great name. Rose, this is Kathleen, I'm Joe, and this is a credit card machine. Happy Thanksgiving.
Mississippi is a hard word to spell. How do you spell it? I-T. Now take this credit card and put it through the machine, zip zip.
So you're fine.
Happy Thanksgiving.
What is it?
It doesn't look like a Menorah.
You think it's a little over the top?
Thank you.
The Village Voice is coming.
It's him.
God. It is God.
I'm Frank Navasky. I carry your picture in my wallet.
The press? I'm the press.
I know all your books. Phaelox the gnome, the little man who comes from nowhere... and is going nowhere... "Where did you come from?" "Nowhere." "Where are you going?" "Nowhere."
This is historic. Do you realize what I've done? By writing that piece, do you realize? I've brought William Spungeon in from the cold. Holy shit. I am completely amazing.
She's not as nice as she seems on television.
You've met her?
She's kind of a pill.
She's probably not as attractive as she seems on television either.
No, she's beautiful. But a pill.
So you don't feel bad about basically destroying her livelihood not to mention her legacy not to mention her raison d'etre.
It's not personal --
It's business.
Right. Exactly.
I sell cheap books. Sue me. I sell cheap books, and as a result -- listen to this, because it's really bad -- more people can buy books.
That's what you said?
That's not all I said. I said -- I can't believe those bastards -- I said we were great, I said people can come and sit and read for hours and no one bothers them, I said we stock 150,000 titles, I showed them the New York City section. I said we were a goddamn piazza where people could mingle and mix and be.
A piazza?
I was eloquent. Shit. It's just inevitable, isn't it? People are going to want to turn her into Joan of Arc --
-- and you into Attila the Hun.
Well it's not me personally, it's more like it's the company --
He's a writer.
Thank you.
Well, I knew William Spungeon loved children's books so I wrote a provocative column --
And it kind of smoked him out.
Hey, I was just being polite. Okay, I admit, I slobbered all over her.
And I can't decide whether to put sausages into the meat sauce or just chopped meat. Last time I made it, Detective Carter and I never even sat down to dinner because -- gesture indicating that sex prevented them from dining) and last night, I made margaritas in the blender, and I took the ice cube and --
Did you tell Frank?
And he's gone to a place where there are no phones. Do you even know this guy's name?
And he will wear a flower in his lapel, and you will be carrying a copy of Anna Karenina with a rose in it.
I suppose she's carrying a copy of a book with a flower in it.
Not really.
Really.
Which Jane Austen is it?
Pride and Prejudice.
She could be a real dog.
I know. Look, I'll just stay ten minutes. I'll say hello. Drink a cup of coffee and split. I'm outta here.
What if she has a really high, squeaky voice? I hate that. It reminds me of those mice in Cinderella.
What mice in Cinderella?
Gus-gus and oh shit, I can't remember the other one. Why am I compelled to meet her? I'm just ruining a good thing.
You're taking it to the next level. I always do that. I always take a relationship to the next level, and if it works okay I take it to the next level after that, until I can finally get to the level where it becomes absolutely necessary for me to leave.
I'm not going to stay long anyway. I already said that, didn't I. Christ. I'm a total wreck.
Kevin, this woman is the most adorable creature I have ever come in contact with. If she turns out to be even as good-looking as a mailbox, I will be crazy not to turn my life upside down and marry her.
She could be a real dog.
You go look.
Me?
Just go to the window and check her out.
You're pathetic.
See her?
There's a beautiful, whoa, a very beautiful girl.
Yes.
But no book. Let me see, let me see... Wait a minute. There's a book with a flower, so it must be her.
What does he look like?
There's a waiter blocking, I can't see her face. He's serving her a cup of tea and she's putting in three spoonfuls of sugar --
Well, why shouldn't she?
No reason. Unless she has hypoglycemia. Oh, he's moving.
Can you see her?
Yes.
And? --
She's very pretty.
She is. I knew she would be. She had to be.
She looks... I would say she has a little of the coloring of that Kathleen Kelly person.
Kathleen Kelly of the bookstore.
Why not? You said you thought she was attractive.
So what? Who cares about Kathleen Kelly?
Well, if you don't like Kathleen Kelly, I can tell you right now you ain't gonna like this girl.
Why not?
Kathleen Kelly.
Oh, God.
What are you going to do?
Nothing.
You're going to let her just wait there?
Yes. Yes I am. That's exactly what I'm going to do. Why not?
But she wrote the letters.
Good night, Kevin. I'll see you tomorrow.
Kathleen Kelly. Hello. What a coincidence. Mind if I sit down?
Pride and Prejudice.
I didn't know you were a Jane Austen fan. Not that it's a surprise. I bet you read it every year. I bet you just love Mr. Darcy, and that your sentimental heart beats wildly at the thought that he and whatever her name is are really, honestly and truly going to end up together.
I'll get up as soon as your friend comes. Is he late?
As a matter of fact I've read it.
I think you'd discover a lot of things if you really knew me.
What is it?
I think you have a gift for it. It was a splendid mixture of poetry and meanness.
Don't misunderstand me, I'm just paying you a compliment.
What have we have? A red, no, crimson rose, tucked into the pages. Something you read about in a book, no doubt. One of those books with a lady in a nightgown on the cover about to throw herself off a cliff.
It's a joke to you, isn't it? Everything's a joke to you.
You know what the handkerchief reminds me of? The first day I met you --
I didn't lie to you --
I did not --
I never lied about it --
I am not a stupid 22-year-old girl --
And when I said the thing about the Price Club and cans of olive oil, that wasn't what I meant either --
I am going to take a wild guess that this isn't him, either. Who is he, I wonder. Not, I gather, the world's greatest living expert on Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, but someone else entirely. Will you be you be mean to him too? Will you start out sweet as sugar candy and then suddenly, miraculously, like a bolt from the blue, find that sharp little tongue of yours?
But he's not here.
That is my cue. Good night.
But underneath that disagreeable exterior she could turn out to be --
A real bitch. Let's not talk about it. I'm going back to the office. You must have work to do.
Not really. This place is humming like a top.
What happened?
He stood you up.
It could be.
He was in jail.
-- but he got only one call and he had to use it to call his lawyer.
You could be dead.
Fuck you.
She fell in love with Generalissimo Franco?
Who else could it have been? It was probably around 1960 --
It happened in Spain. People do really stupid things in foreign countries.
Well she's out of her mind.
I could never ever be with anyone who doesn't take politics as seriously as I do.
A hot dog is singing. You need quiet while a hot dog is singing?
What?
Since when do you get manicures?
Forget it. It's okay. I forgive you.
What's going on?
Look, this has been a big week, you're closing the store --
I know, that was terrible of me.
To jump all over you when I'm the one who's really... Oh, God, I don't know how to say this --
You're a wonderful person, Kathleen.
And I'm honored that you want to be with me because you would never be with anyone who wasn't truly worthy --
Oh, God, don't say that, please, that just makes it worse.
You don't love me?
But we're so right for each other.
I mean, nothing's happened or anything.
I can't help myself.
Asshole.
So you're going to offer her a job?
Now that she's destitute --
Well, I can't imagine her working for you.
She has a horrible personality, she's... nice to everyone all the time. It's exhausting. And her staff turnover is ... non-existent. They've been there forever. Until... recently, when they all found out they were going to lose their jobs.
Hello, Charlie, Veronica.
It is stuck?
Charlie, what are you doing?
No.
This is Joe Fox. Who is this? Hi, Juan. We're stuck on the sixth floor. There are four of us --
Are you all right?
One -- two -- three --
If I ever get out of here, I'm going to --
Then, in the 19th century, Caldecott revolutionized the publishing of children's books by the introduction of color illustrations --
What about going to the Children's Zoo?
Okay. The Staten Island Ferry.
Well we can't go to the Storybook Lady.
read you a story.
She had to close her store.
She didn't have enough business.
Well. Her store was very close to our store, and you know our store sells books at a slightly lower cost --
Why do we sell at a lower cost? So more people can buy books.
Because she's small and we're big. How about we go get some candy?
It's business, Annabel. It's not personal. How about we go get so much candy you'll be bouncing off the walls for days?
Remember the man who worked with her?
Well I hired him.
What are you doing here?
Father and son, together at last. That happened with Gillian?
-- the nanny --
-- also the nanny --
Whose moon turned out to be in somebody else's house, as I recall.
Gillian ran off with someone?
Nanny Maureen? Gillian ran off with Nanny Maureen? That's incredibly ironic.
There's no other word for it.
Patricia. You met her.
Don't worry about it.
Oh, right, a snap to find the one single person in the world who fills your heart with joy.
On to the next.
Joe Fox.
May I please come up?
Kathleen?
Hello.
I heard you were sick and I was worried and I wanted to -- Is someone here?
Bought any porcelain dolls?
I know that --
No.
No, I wouldn't think of --
My former?
We broke up.
Things like that just seem to fly out of your mouth.
I bought you flowers.
Why don't I put them in water?
You're sick. Sit down, please.
Vase?
George says hello. He told me you weren't feeling well.
Great. He's revolutionizing the place. No one is allowed to work in his department who doesn't have a Ph.D. in children's literature.
You told me.
I do.
Oh, a couple of weeks ago.
-- charming.
charming.
Tea?
Honey?
was horrible.
Whereas I am a horrible person and have no choice but to be horrible, is that what you're saying?
You did it again.
I put you out of business. You're entitled to hate me.
But you'll never forgive me. Like Elizabeth.
Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. She was too proud --
-- or was she too prejudiced and Mr. Darcy too proud? I can never remember. It wasn't personal --
Nothing.
I wanted to be your friend.
I knew it wasn't possible. What can I say? Sometimes a person just wants the impossible. Could I ask you something?
What happened with that guy at the cafe?
But you're crazy about him --
Then why don't you run off with him? What are you waiting for?
Really.
Let me guess. From the Internet.
You've Got Mail.
Very powerful words.
I'm happy for him. Although -- could I make a little suggestion? I think you should meet him. No. I take it back. Why meet him?
I concede I bring out the worst in you, but let me help you not to say something you'll just torture yourself about for years to come.
I hope you're better soon. It would be a shame to miss New York in the spring.
Take care.
Goodbye.
Tweaking?
He's probably married.
Have you asked him if he's married? Have you said, "Are you married?"
So he didn't exactly answer.
But he didn't exactly answer, did he? Did he?
Maybe he's fat.
You don't care that he might be one of those guys who's so fat he has to be removed from his house with a crane?
Why else do you think he's putting off meeting you? Although... maybe that's not it. Maybe...
Never mind.
He could be waiting til he's paroled.
What's his handle?
Come on, I'm not going to write him. Is that what you think?
One five two. One hundred fifty two. Very interesting. He's 152 years old. He has 152 hairs remaining on his head. He's had 152 moles removed and now he has 152 pockmarks.
His combined college board scores.
The number of women he's slept with.
That's the first good thing I've heard about him.
The boat thing?
Oh.
How's your book coming?
Mister 152 Felony Indictments --
Yes. Well. Can't compete with that.
I think it is. Want to bump into me Saturday? Around lunchtime?
Today?
Whoa.
Isn't that amazing? Maybe I've seen him, and I don't even know it.
He could be the Zipper Man.
This guy on Amsterdam who repairs zippers. You'll never have to buy new luggage.
Timing is everything. He waited until you were primed. Until you knew there was no other man you could ever love.
Sometimes I wonder...
If I hadn't been Foxbooks and you hadn't been The Shop Around the Corner and we'd just met --
I would have asked for your phone number and I wouldn't have been able to wait 24 hours before calling and asking, "How about coffee, drinks, dinner, a movie, for as long as we both shall live?"
And then we would never have been at war.
The only fight we'd ever have is what video to rent on Saturday night.
Some people. Not us.
If only...
Let me ask you something? How come you'll forgive him for standing you up and you won't forgive me for a little tiny thing like putting you out of business?
Oh how I wish you would.
You don't want to be late.
 And she starts to cry.
Don't cry, Shopgirl, don't cry.