You hafta be Detectives Dolly and Duffy . Am I right ? Eunice Bloom . A pleasure .
And you must be Greenly . Smecker always said you were the funny one .
Special .
You see there ' s a " special " before my " agent ." If we are going to address each other formally , I ' d prefer if you popped it in there . Makes me feel , I don ' t know ... special . Of course , I ' d hoped we could be a little more personable . In fact , I ' d like you to call me Eunice .
Whoa , whoa , " fuck ?" This isn ' t a " fuck " situation , is it ? I can see a " God Damn " or two but why skip all the way to " fuck " right off the bat ? Let ' s start slow and work our way up to it .
Their interest , Detective , is capturing the men responsible for the murders of 22 of Boston ' s finest criminals . Y ' see public perception is that these boys stepped in , did our jobs for us and then disappeared into thin air as we fecklessly searched for them . The FBI tends to take exception to such things . They coulda sent anyone . They sent me . Why do you think that is ?
It is because I am so fucking smart that I make smart people feel like retards . Now , we seem to be getting off on the wrong foot here . I ' d appreciate a bit of cooperation . Let ' s chalk it up to paying respect to the memory of a dearly departed mutual friend . A man who taught me everything I know .
Lovely . Now what ' s with the circus ?
And it looks like that ' s just the way somebody wanted it . What say we scrape the shit off this cow ' s ass , fellas ? Detective Greenly ? Escort a lady onto the crime scene ?
Never touch the stuff .
It wasn ' t them ... but I ' m sure you boys already knew that .
Let ' s go with the venue first . Our perpetrators are devout . They would never commit such an act on sacred ground . And as for the victim ?
Man , I hate it when people say that . " With all due respect ." Because it is inevitably followed by a disrespectful remark . I ' ll give you an example . With all due respect , Detective , this matter falls under whatever jurisdiction I fuckin ' say it does .
Shoo - ter . Singular . And I can tell you that he is left handed and how shall I put this delicately ...? He ' s a short bastard .
I ' ll show you what I ' m talking about .
Detective Greenly , you ' re the victim .
Very well , David .
The Saints ' signature stance . Copley Plaza Hotel four years ago . Two men of identical height put Yuri Petrova on his knees and each dropped iron to the back of his head .
Eyes front , David . The position of the victim and the angles produced by the killers ' stance created a unique scenario . The bullets criss crossed in the skull and exited the eye sockets . Here , this did not occur . The rounds moved on a straight trajectory through the back of the victim ' s head and out the front . Which happens when ...
One guy .
Now , the victim falls forward . If you please , David .
The killer approached the body from the left side ... ... and flipped him to the right .
Yep , southpaw .
The Saints were later determined to be five foot eleven inches tall . It ' s just dumb luck that the Russian and McKinney are the exact same height .
The rounds exited Petrova ' s eye balls . Here they came out the lower cheek .
Three , four inches below the eyes .
The killer posed as a late night confessor . Once the victim entered the booth the killer had him isolated . No escape . Short stuff exits his confessional and kicks in the door of the priest ' s chamber ...
... leaving a crescent shaped indentation which indicates that this cowboy was wearing a boot with a pronounced heel .
Gave him a couple inches . We ' re looking at about five foot five , gentlemen .
Wicked .
And that ' s all she wrote . Everything points in the same direction .
More than just a theory , Chief .
And word ' s been put to all his lieutenants that the Saints are to be taken out , on sight .
Walk with me , Chief . Let ' s talk .
I understand you got a job to do , Chief . But if Yakavetta even sniffs that we ' re onto him , he puts a bullet in Napoleon ' s head , plants him at the bottom of the ocean and walks . This pint sized killer is the only thing that puts Yakavetta right in the middle of this . It is imperative that we find this man .
Absolute horse pucky , Chief . Unfortunately , authority ' s developed a problem with me .
Well , y ' see , I am currently in possession of a vagina .
So you spoke to Kuntsler . Anything else .
Message delivered , Chief .
It ' s them .
A wise man once told me . Where a man ' s actions are firmly bound to an unshakable faith one ' s worst nightmares become sudden , terrifying reality .
Y ' can almost smell the brimstone , can ' tcha ?
Oh , this was a plan that fell to pieces . A lot here doesn ' t make sense which is why it makes perfect sense . I believe things in our fair little city just got downright biblical .
Yeah , I heard of this rodeo clown . Duffy approaches , hands Eunice a tiny bullet in a baggy .
A twenty two ? You gotta be kidding me . That ' s like bringing a knife to a gunfight .
Well , I ' m having a hard time believing that one of the three most lethal individuals on the planet just switched over to bird shot .
No , sir . It ' s them . But we just might have ourselves a change in the line up , here .
Hell , we ' ve just been called up to the big show . We are tracking multiple perpetrators , gentlemen . The plan ? We keep our ear to the ground and try to figure out where Yakavetta ' s hiding . Napoleon . We find him and flip him . And as for the Saints ... I ' m gonna have me a face to face with these boys one way or the other .
What did you just call me ?
Why , I ' m a lady , George . That fact alone demands a certain amount of ... ... cordiality .
Well , how courteous of you to apologize . Courtesy is so important . Don ' t you agree ?
Good . Now sit your fat ass down .
Where is ... Concezio Yakavetta ?
Yeah . There ' s a lot of stuff you don ' t know , Hoss . For instance , why aren ' t you safely tucked away in some ivory tower with all the other big wigs , sucking on cannoli and shrimp cocktail ? Why are you the one he left on the streets , George ?
Someone ' s gotta chum the waters .
Good . Then you can just listen . The jig is up . We know Concezio had that priest killed .
Oh , surprise , surprise . Another thing you don ' t know , I reckon . But why would he tell you ? You and your guys on the streets , you ' re his bait . Y ' all just got thrown into a meat grinder .
Gorgeous George , huh ? Expendable George is more like it .
By the by , you got a pretty nice ass for a fat man .
What ' s this ?
That ' s horse shit . Everyone gets printed nowadays . They ' re inking up snotgobblers in kindergarten , now .
I ' m gonna go powder my nose .
McKinney wore his watch on his left hand .
Where was this found exactly ?!
Dolly , get on the phone ! Find out which wrist he wore his rosary on and if he was wearing it that night ! Duffy , run that partial through DMV ! David put it through INTERpol ! Just get an I . D .! Now ! Come on ! Vamoose !
You took your glove off , didn ' tcha Cowboy . Now , why would you go and do a damn fool thang like that ?
How do , David ?
Lovely . Anything else ?
I think I ' ll drop in on their supper , see if I can shake them up a little .
No thank you , Mike Tyson . Bye now .
Easy fellas . I ' m alone .
My name is Eunice Bloom ... and I ' m your new guardian angel . A torch was passed to me by a mutual friend , gone but not forgotten .
And you have mine .
Very well ... Connor , Murphy .
That , I suspect , was the shooter you boys have been looking for .
Let ' s speed this up before your new sidekick ' s got to dig any deeper into his impressive vocabulary .
I am an FBI agent who is controlling this investigation from within , in order to ensure that you gentlemen never see the inside of a prison cell . I am conspiring to do this with three like minded individuals who have aided you in the past . Though I have yet to inform them of my agenda because , well , girl ' s gotta have her fun .
The very same .
Two of them are scared . One ' s just horny .
Bet ' cha can but let ' s save it for group . Right now , we have a big problem .
This ... simply won ' t do . We made a deal . The big fish step in if your body count gets too high and ... ... you have been very naughty boys .
O ' kay . Here ' s how it all went down .
A secret gathering of the Brugliones . The topic of discussion ? Weak leadership and betrayal .
The enemy of my enemy is my friend . So , even with all their old vendettas ...
And there it is . Guess what comes next .
Red Rover . Red Rover .
Ah . Easier uttered than accomplished . The North End and the South End may as well be the Hetfields and the McCoys . These fellas ... they just don ' t get on .
Oh , the cliche . A Mexican stand off in a Mexican restaurant .
They cut each other to pieces ... and nobody walked away . Who knows who fired first . Could have been any one of them . But somebody let it loose . And duck , duck , duck ...
Goose .
Yakavetta ' s lost control of the streets .
They ' re fighting over his throne . This was not the work of the Saints .
Are you ready for your fifteen minutes , Sweetheart ?
Someone maneuvered it through the system using false information during the highest alert in U . S . history .
You ' re darn tootin ' he don ' t .
Something stanks like manure .
We got someplace to be ! Let ' s go !
It ' s time to revisit the scene of the crime .
37 bodies later and we ' re finally back where it all began . Y ' ever heard of the southern expression , " We have an elephant in the living room ?"
Hope you fellas brought some peanuts .
My Daddy was an old six gun shooter . A real cowboy .
Don ' t mention it . Now , we have a little business to go over before you celebrate in earnest .
That ' s the guy . He ' s a Sicilian immigrant , name of Ottilio Panza .
Yes ... and well put . He ' ll be front page news in the morning but we have to assume Yakavetta already knows we ' ve ID ' d his guy . We can ' t give him time to ' Plan B ' us .
Should be . Where ' s it gonna happen ?
Well , you boys have fun . Connor , Murphy ? Escort a lady to the door ?
School night . Got some homework to do . Besides , I ' d like to critique your masterpiece with a fresh eye .
Something ain ' t right with this whole thing . Panza knew you were in there tonight and he just let it happen . Didn ' t lift a finger . I mean , if he ' s working for Yakavetta , why would he stand by and just watch all his guys get taken out ?
Starting ta look that way . Somebody pushed that visa through . Could have ourselves a gen - u - ine ' Ghost in the Darkness ,' here .
On a sultry Saturday in September the Saints saved seventeen souls ... try saying that five times fast .
Just fine ... Cunty .
Boy . I ' d love to hear a gen - u - wine professional ' s assessment of a crime scene . How ' bout you , detectives ?
There are three inaccuracies in what you just said . Number one , David .
Number two , Dolly .
Number three , Duffy .
Looks like Bloomy aced her science project .
Why don ' t you let me take a crack at it , John ? Won ' t cost you nuthin '.
Cuz , tonight ... mamma ' s right on time .
This evening ' s topic of discussion ? Desperate times require desperate measures .
Which brings us to the relevance of our new guests .
It ' s time to reclaim the streets with an iron fist .
Let ' s explain the glass , now . Why is most of it inside the room ?
Here ' s why ... or it will be " why " in a moment . Y ' see , these boys . Well , to put it simply , they tend to get reeeeal ...
And you can count on it like the U . S . mail . Through rain , sleet , hail or snow ... something always seems to go wrong for these poor sons o ' guns .
One ... thing has always amazed me .
How quiet it gets . You ever noticed that ? It ' s hard to imagine that just a few hours ago , it was the God damn O . K . coral in here .
One thang I ' m gon guarantee ya ...
We gon have us a good time ...
... in the old barn tonight !
YEEEEEEE HAAAAAAAW !!! Soon it is over . The brothers slam Concezio to his knees and level to the back of his head . As he begs for his life ...
Hold up , now .
Was that the best you could do ?
Shhhhhh . Ya broke down the door , didn ' tcha ?
And that , gentlemen ... is the sound of the fat lady singin '.
You bet your ass you weren ' t .
Yakavetta had a partner , didn ' t he .
You saw this fella ?
What was it ?
Easy , David . I ' m fine . C ' mon gents , we ' re leaving . This is the Fed ' s problem , now .
You got him in custody . Ask him yourself . You ' re the professional .
Feels like our ghost ta me .
We ' ve all had enough excitement for one night . Let ' s sleep on it .
I hope they do it slow ... you piece of shit .
He lives in York Maine . About 30 minutes from here . Better go quick . I logged on to an FBI database to get the info . Homeland Security does internal monitoring now . Only a matter of time before they flag it .
I hear Costa Rica ' s nice .
I never thought I ' d ask this of another human being but please ... kill this man .
