His girlfriend , Marie . She was killed in India three weeks ago .
Right .
I think he ' s looking for something he hasn ' t found .
I ' m not sure . Maybe he hasn ' t gotten his memory back yet . Not all of it .
If he just wanted to hurt us he could have sent this tape to CNN .
Nothing for me .
Suggested ? Are you sure it was just a suggestion ?
Meaning ?
Bourne ' s finished .
It was finished the moment I realized I was chasing him for something he didn ' t do . The case is closed . 35
This doesn ' t feel like Bourne to me .
Probably because it ' s coming from you , Noah .
So what happened at Waterloo ?
And the reporter ended up dead ?
So what was he doing ?
The real question is how you managed to get in a fire fight in the middle of a public train station .
I ' m going to the office now . I ' ll make my own introductions .
Let ' s do names later . What ' s Bourne ' s last fixed position ? Anybody .
Status ? Wounded ? Armed ?
Where are your grids coming from ?
You have an Echelon package ?
Why isn ' t it on ?
For what ? You ' re nine hours behind the toughest target you ' ve ever tracked . I want everyone to sit down , strap in , and turn on all you ' ve got . That would mean now .
Thank you .
I want everything you ' ve got on Ross on screen one .
I think we can be pretty certain that Bourne ' s not your source then ?
Ross ' s call to his editor , where he said he just met the source on Blackbriar , took place just after his flight landed . His met his source in Turin .
So , what , Bourne met Ross for breakfast and then , at noon the same day Bourne calls Ross to demand a meet at Waterloo ?
The guy you ' re after is a CIA operative with clearance above Top Secret . He was committing treason by talking to Ross . Do you really think , while doing that , he used a cell phone he knows we can track ?
Yeah , I ' d look at all the people whose cell phones were switched off the entire period Ross was in Turin .
I mean if your people use their cell phones as much as mine do , the list should be pretty small
Now check everything in Ross ' s apartment against those names . Look for common patterns , look for -
Neal Daniels . He ' s Station Chief in Madrid now , isn ' t he ?
" Heavy ?" Daniels isn ' t --
I was posted here after Berlin .
Hello .
This is Nicky Parsons . Who ' s this ?
Response : " Everest ".
I just walked in .
They ' re down . Unconscious , but alive .
No .
Nicky , this is Pam Landy . We have reason to believe there is a connection between Neal Daniels and Jason Bourne .
Bourne , are you still looking for Bourne ? I thought the case was closed .
No , some people are convinced he ' s still a threat . I disagree but to find out I need to talk to him .
Okay .
They know you ' re here .
Three minutes ...
My car ' s outside . I know where Daniels is .
The only way this has a happy ending , Noah , is if we find a way to bring Bourne in voluntarily .
8 o ' clock this morning , he wired $ 100 , 000 . to a numbered bank account in Tangier .
And then what ? 49
They ' re coming .
What are you after , Jason ? Why are you looking for Daniels ?
That ' s Daniels . I don ' t know who that is .
Who is he ? 51
What happened ?
Jason ... that wasn ' t some one - off initiation . Daniels said they did that to you over and over again . That ' s how they ...
It was difficult for me ... with you .
You really don ' t remember anything ?
Since when do you have authorization for lethal action against Daniels ?
So grab him --
What ' s going on ? What ' s Daniels got ? 53
I think the world ' s well aware we have a rendition and lethal action capability at this point , Noah .
You still don ' t have the authority to kill him .
You just decide ? No oversight . No checks and balances .
It ' s Pamela Landy for him . Would you tell him it ' s urgent ?
His location ' s being blocked .
They ' ll get one of the operatives to terminate him .
If you stop Desh they ' ll just get someone else .
Now . I want to know what ' s going on .
I ' m asking on what basis you ' re continuing this operation .
This is about Daniels , not Nicky !
You don ' t know the circumstances !
You don ' t have the authority to kill her or Bourne !
She ' s one of our own . You start down this path ... where does it end ?! 60
Confirmed ?
Get me a copy of Bourne ' s personnel file .
It ' s just going to lead to more killing , Jason . Are you sure you want that ?
They don ' t know .
Maybe we should communicate back . Because I think I know what Bourne ' s looking for .
Pamela Landy .
Bourne ?
I guess I owe you an apology .
Wait . Wait .
David Webb . That ' s your real name . 73
Why don ' t you come in , and we ' ll talk about it ? Bourne ?
What just happened ?
What ?!
415 East 71st Street .
4 / 15 / 71 isn ' t much of a code . My guess is Vosen ' s already on his way .
This isn ' t us , David . What they turned you into , what they ' re doing with Blackbriar ... This has to stop .
David ... Come in with me . It ' s better if we do this together .
Oh , my God ...
You better get a good lawyer .
