We don ' t negotiate with them ! We dictate to them . Their place is to beg . They have forgotten their role and have denied us the sustenance of their prayers .
Our mercy will give them reason to be grateful . They will bow down and whisper our names with more passion than before .
They will bow down when we snap their backs ! Mercy ? We are Gods ! Some of us remember that and are not afraid -- Zeus has had enough : furious ARCS OF LIGHTNING jump to the walls , the eagle beats its wings in rage .
And we do not interfere in their actions . We leave them undisturbed unless - invoked by name to enter their affairs .
Soon enough , Set . Zeus has grown weaker than I knew . Set gestures at the white chips on the tray as he picks up the two black shards representing their votes . He hands one to Tiamat .
They ' re beginning to think like Men . But you and I shall not . Set agrees , his eyes searching her face .
We will manage these thick - witted Humans to our own ends . Yes , we will be bound by great Zeus ' rules ... until their fragile membranes tear . We dare not interfere with these insects ...
Twenty - five years ! How is that possible ? Amoun winces at her tone . Thoth sends a scary glance her way . Icy --
Andromeda !
Just which king do you serve ?
What assurance do we have that our daughter will be safe ?
Mother wants you to come in for supper .
I still don ' t understand .
Tell me ! Why is there war between Man and the Gods ? Marmara and Tekla continue to bring out the food .
At the beginning of time , when Man was young , he prayed to the Gods . His belief in the Gods gave his life meaning . It was a good thing .
But Man grew , as children do , and he turned away from the Gods . Be began to put his faith in other things . Perseus watches the debate with fiery eyes .
What things ?
But what of the Gods , who had protected and guided us so long ? They must breathe our prayers to survive . They hunger for
Spyros !
Desperate ... the Gods ?
And that is how war broke out between Man and Gods .
It was not the boat I was watching .
Yes , of service . I need you to come with me on a journey . Perseus gives her a look .
It ' s not what I want . I am in the service of others .
I ' m sorry .
This time ? Only a few hours . The time before , almost a day . How was your rest ?
You are special , Perseus . Your birth was ordained for this very purpose .
Do you ever lie awake during a storm and listen to the thunder ?
How long can you hold your breath ? Longer than the others ? Are there times when you know you should feel pain , but you don ' t ?
Look at your arms , Perseus . Perseus watches the bites on his arm heal visibly .
I ' m a Chthonian .
An Earth Goddess .
We fade away . This touches Perseus deeply . His tone changes .
Nowhere . Sorry .
For a marriage .
Zeus , God of Gods , has proposed a treaty to end the war . At the center is the marriage of a mortal with a demigod .
Zeus himself has chosen you . A demigod may be less than a God , but he ' s more than a Man . One foot in Humanity , the other in Divinity . Your marriage will be a symbol of accord between our races .
Such a union could save millions of souls . Perseus is struck by that . He looks off across the sea .
Do you think you can manhandle a Princess this way ? As though she was hungry and needy as you , a mere servant ? Another steamy kiss . In between liplocks , she whispers
very mistaken ... a woman of my station ... never be attracted ... They go at it again .
Princess ... Princess !
The Queen approaches !
Andromeda ! You ' ll care enough if you ' re caught ! Remember last time ... From inside we HEAR complaining , more kissing and moaning .
Where is the Princess ?
Is she not in her chambers , ma ' am ?
She is not . You are expected to know her -- A SQUEAL and WHISPERING from the closet stops Cassiopeia . She throws a perturbed glance at the door . Peshet looks guilty .
Tell the Princess -- should you find her -- her father and I want to see her at once . She stalks away . Urgently , through the door --
Princess , it ' s the King as well !
To please you , I would submit to such a marriage ... except I would rather die ; Please let me know you ' re serious about this perverse plan so I can make arrangements to kill myself .
She ' ll be a great ruler one day .
You ' re looking in the wrong direction .
Perhaps you should give some thought to your immediate future .
Maybe you should take another look ... She indicates the view behind him . Perseus turns , jaw dropping .
All the goods , armies , and culture of Man ' s dominion flow through this port . He who reigns in Joppa , rules the world . Amidst the exotic chaos , Perseus is struck by the homeless refugees on the street and the ruins of once - proud buildings .
You .
I ' m sure she ' s preparing herself to make the best possible impression . Perseus suppresses a smile , amused by the royal couple . Kepheus paces with mounting impatience .
They exist , young man . But if you doubt their power , I join you --
The wedding comes later . Tomorrow we will have the public announcement .
She is unmistakable .
Zeus ? Zeus ' rumbling voice is held low , talking to her in an intimate way -- a beautiful sound .
My part is finished .
As I ' ve lost my believers , the future has become dimmer to me .
It ' s too painful . I can ' t involve myself .
Will you please give me some
What did you say ?
Do you always start a seduction with an insult ? Perseus moves to the rail , very close to her , and looks at the sea .
What brings you here ?
I mean here , tonight . He looks over at her a long moment .
It ' s not personal . You ' re not a bad - looking boy . I ' m too young . I don ' t want to be married .
Then why are you doing it ?
Since we agree , it ' s settled . No marriage .
That doesn ' t mean we can ' t be friends . Get to know each other . I want to show you something . She leads him into a tall , hedged garden maze .
I ' ll take care of you . They take two more jogs and find themselves in an odd sylvan chamber . Soft plants have been stacked in what could be mistaken for a bed .
This is my special place . No one can see or hear or even find us now .
Do you want to ? When he turns back to her , she melts into his arms and gives him a long deep kiss . He ' s surprised , but handles it well . When she tries to continue , he slows things down , holding her at bay .
Do you not find me attractive ?
Of course , you haven ' t been much in the world .
Don ' t you want to make love to your almost - wife ? Maybe we ' ll find we ' re not compatible .
Is it true you ' re a demigod ?
I don ' t see it . But let ' s find out for sure ... She kisses him yet again , pulling him toward the bed of foliage . He can no longer resist . Together they fall into the softness . He kisses her passionately as their bodies begin to move together . She breaks the kiss for only a moment , her voice husky --
I think I ' m becoming a believer ... They start to make love .
You ' re late .
I want to thank you for seeing me home . I was so flushed with wine I can ' t recall much of the evening . Perseus half smiles and turns to the crowd .
At what point do you plan to tell them we ' re not getting married ?
Them ...
I won ' t be long - winded . You all know I am a modest person , no matter my rank . Some of the crowd react silently . Andromeda watches her mother with trepidation , but not as much as Kepheus , watching from his throne .
This is not a celebration of a betrothal ...
This union represents new hope for a lasting peace ! That is the only cause for celebration . The crowd reacts with exclamations and applause . Amoun wills her to stop . Cassiopeia takes another drink , looks over at the Princess .
My sweet Andromeda ... grown into a fine young woman , confident and sure . Look at her ! Isn ' t she beautiful ? Her subjects agree loudly . Andromeda wishes this would end . Cassiopeia raises her glass .
To my beautiful daughter ... more beautiful than all the women of Joppa . More beautiful than the Gardens of Nineveh ... Kepheus is about to pull her away . She throws him a spiteful glance .
More beautiful than the turquoise ocean and its sublime Goddess of the Deep ... Tiamat herself ! My daughter is a beauty even a Goddess must envy . Amoun reacts in dismay . A distressed MURMUR roils the crowd . Andromeda goes to her mother .
I ' ve gone on too long -- She stops with a look of sudden dread . The Great Hall DARKENS . The torch flames TURN BLACK . The temperature drops . The statues lining the hall shut their eyes and the doors burst open . TIAMAT , QUEEN OF THE DEEP , floats forward , parting the terrified celebrants . Perseus sees his first Olympian . Tiamat arrives at the dais . Cassiopeia drops to her knees .
You have blasphemed powers beyond understanding ... You , a stupid braying goat before the unfathomable galaxies . You dare put this frivolous , scrawny slut ...
Look upon the sublime and know your error . You ' ll not blink . Tell me now , mortal , how bright your preening urchin shines ? No one dare look long at the Goddess . No one but Perseus . Tiamat notices Perseus ... and his boldness .
People of Joppa , hear me . For the sacrilege of this arrogant creature , I will loose Leviathan upon you . The people react in terror . Cassiopeia starts to faint , but Tiamat snaps her back to consciousness --
I ' m not finished . Hold your gaze . For thirty days , Joppa shall suffer the scorn of Leviathan . And on the final day , you will be wiped from the earth . Unless ... Instant silence .
unless you sacrifice that body so impertinently compared to this
This is my will , Joppa . Desolation or sacrifice . Choose your penance . You can thank your ... . sickly , aged Queen . Clouds of black sea ink swirl and swallow Tiamat , then implode . Tiamat is gone . Cassiopeia , palsied and withered , collapses . Kepheus and Royal Aides rush to her .
Yes . I beseech you , track the expedition .
That , we cannot have . I merely suggest that the road to Skolothia is hazardous .
You must sleep . Princessat You must take care of yourself . A CRACK OF THUNDER . Andromeda looks over at her , thinking .
My father was ready to sacrifice me to the monster .
I ' m sure that is not so .
I saw it . I heard the words . My loving father , his beloved child . Only Perseus stayed his decision .
The city is besieged , the people suffer .
Go to sleep , my lady .
Sleep ? Sleep will come soon enough for me , faithful one . In one month ... at the latest . The palace shakes with the ROLLING THUNDER .
It will not stop . Tiamat knows no mercy .
I have no name .
I can ' t remember .

A delusion is planted in its mind . It thinks it ' s starving and it wants to feed on --
I can ' t reverse the powerful curse . But if the monster ' s hungry , I can feed it . Vidalia raises her arms and shuts her eyes . A cyclone of CAWING RAVENS descends from the sky and dives straight into the monster ' s mouth . As the Humbaba tries to shake them away , Mongke is thrown clear .
Now ! The belly ! Slash the belly ! Draco moves to do that when Perseus leaps forward , lunges and sweeps his blade up Humbaba ' s belly at the same moment Draco sweeps down . The two blades barely miss each other , opening a huge X in the belly . The others are shocked and impressed by Perseus . Steaming purple entrails spill over Perseus and Draco . HUMBABA CRASHES
I should cast a spell upon you and leave you forever a stone upon this stream .
You did , with your childish recklessness , and Boreas has paid the price ! Perseus , already rife with guilt , is stung by the truth .
Yes , a tyrannical Goddess , who dares question your mad rush to annihilation .
Where have you brought me ?
You are the Priest of the Streets .
Some do ...
I have always served the royal family .
My loyal friend . it is beneath you to stalk this band of infidels one by one . Events demand more decisive action . Kalibos ' SPEECH is as tortured and deformed as his body --
Yes , Kalibos , the time is nigh when I restore you to your rightful form -- proud Acrisius . With me , your protector , on the throne of Olympos ... the violator Zeus deposed . Kalibos reacts , with what must be satisfaction .
The Alkali Lotus ... She stops , spotting something in the distance . Kosmo pulls up .
What is that ?
Lotophagi . Lotus - eaters . We should leave ... now .
Okay ... sshh ... I ' ve got you . A THUNDEROUS SOUND SURGES in the distance . Vidalia scans the horizon .
To save me , you risked everything -- your mission , your friends ... the fate of multitudes . Men need better judgment in the one who is meant to lead them ... No longer able to lecture , she regards him with love .
You shouldn ' t have risked your life for me . It is a waste to save me when I ' ll be gone so soon . She strokes his hair and kisses his forehead .
Thank you for your reckless disregard . Thank you , Perseus ... Vidalia holds her palm above the floor and mutters a quick incantation . A small shoot APPEARS and SPROUTS FAT PODS . Vidalia squeezes the salve from a pod and covers Perseus ' wound . The wound bulges , then squirms deeper into Perseus . Perseus shoots up , clutching his chest . Vidalia gently lays him down . Perseus gags . A VIPER WRIGGLES from his throat and slithers away with the fat lump of infection in its stomach .
The poison is gone now .
In the Djinn caravan . They ' re escorting us to the Skolothian border .
She ' s got a tail and she ' ll use it just like that . Perseus opens his eyes .
Keep your eyes shut ! Open them with Medusa and it will be your last look .
Good ! Pleased , he doesn ' t sense her right cross , which knocks him down .
Do you think the Gorgon will hit once and then surrender her head ? He gets up , eyes closed , and resumes the defensive position , turning as she moves around him .
Listen ... you will hear her muscles coil . Feel her hunger in your gut . Ask , how will she feed it ?
You can . You ' re the son of a God .
We think a room is silent until someone points out the wind . Then the wind is all we hear . She strikes . He dodges and locks her neck . Pleased , she flips him .
You ' ve learned enough for now .
And I thank you for the gift of my cosseted youth . But now , with Mother so ... It ' s time I shared this burden you ' ve carried so long . Filled with emotion , he puts an arm around her .
No , no longer . Your protection of me has brought hardship to our people ...
If you could end this siege with just one unselfish act , would you do it ?
Be at peace , Father , I will not cause you any more sadness than I already have .
becomes the new home of Tiamat , granting her sway to supplant him as the God of Gods . You can ' t allow Tiamat to rule Olympos .
I know this place ... Suddenly , she hurries to the trunk of an ancient tree . She probes the foliage , steps forward ... and descends into the ground , out of sight .
This is my church . Where I was born to the world . Where my people prayed to me .
I know they were humans . They seemed so fragile . I sheltered them because I thought the harsh world would break them . Now I know I underestimated them . Her eyes pierce Perseus .
When I saw you come out with Medusa ' s head , I saw that a Man had done an impossible thing . Beautiful , yes , but not fragile . Resilient . Fearless .
When the war began , Men ranged through the hills , stamping out any trace of God - worship they found . My true name was carved here . When it was obliterated , my worshippers lost faith and my last season began .
Only days .
I will vanish , quick as dew evaporating at dawn .
Nothing can save me .
I was cut free of earthly longing . Why did you have to give me a name ? The light is almost gone now . They kiss . The wilted blossoms in her crown slowly open with color . They begin to make love .
Close your eyes . 1
Do what I tell you . I ' m going to give you a spell .
Let me give you this sliver of magic . I ' ll write it on your instinct . When the time comes , you ' ll know how to use it . She takes his head in her hands , pressing her forehead to his . Gently , her fingers slip into his mind . A TEAR runs down her cheek .
How did he do this ? They were not even to reach Medusa .
Spare me your pitiful maundering ! There is no Fate beyond my actions and no uncertainty in the face of my will .
Then there shall be no rules ! Prove to me you have not lost that which makes you most valuable . Set absorbs her tirade , stung .
I am your ally . That is all you need to know . Bloody your hands and rid me of this pestilence .
Look what I ' ve found for us -- She startles when she sees Amoun , dropping the berries .
I ' m so sorry , Perseus . A look of brutal , determined resolve grows in Perseus ' face .
You faced a God in lethal combat ... and vanquished him . Never have I heard of such a thing . He looks at her , mind racing , then lifts her as he stands .
My lady ? Princess Andromeda ? She goes deeper into the rooms , then GASPS , looking off ,
Peshet , stop ! I know what I am meant to do .
My lady , please --
I was afraid , Peshet . Afraid to understand that the fate of so many could rest with me .
Princessa , give me your hand . Andromeda , please . Please .
I ' m not afraid anymore . I will do what I must . I will die so that they may live .
I won ' t allow it , my lady . Today , you are only a Princess . One day your people may need a Queen ready to die for them . Peshet snatches up the dagger from where she dropped it .
Good .
We must get to my mother and father . A VOICE from the darkness :
Come and get her . Agenor and the other two circle Peshet . She moves with feline agility , but is separated from the Princess . To the Second Rebel --
The people are frightened . But they can triumph .. They need only one thing . Perseus turns to her , a question on his face -- " Tell me ... 11
A hero . They ' re waiting for you , Perseus . Perseus looks back toward the city . At last , there is no uncertainty in Perseus --
I damn you , Zeus ! You will hear my curses forever in the crash of
I think I am . He smiles . She ' ll never know how close they came to oblivion .
Are you ready to become a king ? His expression is kind , but unmistakable . " No ." She accepts that , rueful .
Yes . Yes , I am .
