It ' s important , Mr . Pennyworth . Her accent is European . Hard to place .
I could try explaining that a save - the - world project , vain or not , is worth investing in , whatever the return . I could try , Mr . Daggett , but you understand only money and the power you think it buys , so why waste my time , indeed ?
I like having someone around to open doors for me .
Right hand . No partials . Stryver slides a transparency out of the envelope . Holds it up to the light . Four perfect fingerprint transfers .
Not so fast , handsome . You got something for me ?
I don ' t know what you ' re going to do with Mr . Wayne ' s prints ... but I ' m guessing you ' ll need his thumb . As Stryver checks the envelope again -
You don ' t count so good , huh ?
Okay , okay -
My friend is waiting outside . Just hit ' send '...
Place is a little dead .
It ' ll liven up in a minute , trust me .
Everything okay ?
Great . Catch you later . Jen leaves . Stryver checks the envelope . Satisfied .
It would ' ve been a lot easier to just give me what we agreed .
No . But my friend over there ...? Stryver looks at Selina ' s ' date ' drooling into a bowl of nuts at the bar - he looks familiar ...
Every cop in the city ' s missing him .
I don ' t know ... You did just use his cell phone . Stryver glances down at the cell phone as - SCREECH - the Thugs look out the window at cop cars and SWAT units descending on the bar . Stryver glances at the window and - SMASH - Selina CRACKS his head against the table , grabs
Keep some pressure on that , sweetheart . She adjusts her dress in the broken mirror behind the bar . Moves for the door .
There ' s a man in there - he ' s bleeding !
Mr . Fox , I believe in what Mr . Wayne was trying to do ...
I ' m only asking for explanations because I think I can help .
He doesn ' t talk to you either ?
Mr . Fox , are you aware that John Daggett is trying to acquire shares in Wayne Enterprises ?
I told you - money first -
Get out .
Now . She releases the Yuppie , who moves off down the stairs . Selina turns to Jen . Who is examining a wallet .
I told you not to try it with the assholes , Jen .
They ' re all assholes .
Okay , the assholes who hit .
I don ' t know what he ' s so upset about , he only had sixty bucks in here .
Probably the watch .
Even before you became a recluse , you never came to these things ...
Actually , this is my party , Mr . Wayne .
And the proceeds will go where they should , because I paid for the big fat spread myself .
You have to invest to restore balance to the world . Take our clean - energy project ...
You have a practiced apathy , Mr . Wayne . But a man who doesn ' t care about the world doesn ' t spend half his fortune on a plan to save it ... And isn ' t so wounded when it fails that he goes into hiding ... Wayne looks at Miranda . Intrigued .
Have a good evening , Mr . Wayne . Wayne watches Miranda glide away . Then turns to Selina .
You were supposed to be a shut - in .
Why didn ' t you call the police ?
Yeah ? Who are you pretending to be ?
His wife ' s in Ibiza . She left her diamonds behind , though . Worried they ' d get stolen .
You think I care what anyone in this room thinks about me ?
Don ' t condescend , Mr . Wayne . You don ' t know a thing about me .
You don ' t get to judge me because you were born in the master bedroom of Wayne Manor .
I started off doing what I had to . Once you ' ve done what you had to they ' ll never let you do what you want to .
There ' s no fresh start in today ' s world . Any twelve - year - old with a cell phone could find out what you did . Everything we do is collated and quantified . Everything sticks . We are the sum of our mistakes .
The mistakes stick better . Trust me .
I take what I need to from those who have more than enough . I don ' t stand on the shoulders of people with less .
I ' d do more to help someone than most of the people in this room . Than you .
Or maybe you ' re being unrealistic about what ' s really in your pants other than your wallet .
You think all this can last ? Wayne glances around at the sumptuous party .
There ' s a storm coming , Mr . Wayne . You and your friends better batten down the hatches , because when it hits you ' re all gonna wonder how you ever thought you could live so large and leave so little to the rest of us .
I ' m adaptable .
Well , what do you know ? Catwoman opens the safe . Nothing inside . She frowns .
Careful what you wish for . Catwoman grabs him , throws him across the room . His back slams against the wall - he draws a gun , but - WHACK ! - Catwoman pins his wrist to the wall at shoulder height using the high heel of her boot . He whimpers as she leans in .
Cat got your tongue ? She plucks the gun from his trembling hand .
Nobody ever accused me of being dumb .
I want what you owe me -
I don ' t know , do they ?
So where is it ?
The program . The ' Clean Slate '.
Where is it ?
You ' re lying . Rykin Data took it to prototype stage -
Stay back ! They continue to approach . One of them screws a silencer onto his gun .
I ' m not bluffing !
You ' ve got to be kidding .
Where ' s the fun in that ? As more mercenaries come out onto the roof , Batman runs for the far edge .
My mother warned me about getting into cars with strange men -
See you around - Batman steps down after her .
I had it under control .
Wayne wasn ' t kidding about a ' powerful friend '. I sold his prints to Daggett . For something that doesn ' t even exist .
Hey , when a girl ' s desperate ...
I don ' t know . But Daggett seemed pretty interested in that mess at the stock market . Batman considers this . A police chopper sweeps past , searching . Batman turns to it . Then turns back .
You brought me out here to show me a rubbish dump , Mr . Fox ?
This is it , isn ' t it ?
Is Bruce Wayne really that paranoid ?
No radiation , no fossil fuels . Free , clean energy for an entire city .
You ' ve built a lot of security around a damp squib . Nothing . About three years ago a Russian scientist published a paper on weaponized fusion reactions . One week later your reactor started developing problems ... ( Looks at Wayne .) I think this machine works .
Would it make you feel better to know that the Russian scientist died in a plane crash six months ago ?
And to do what with it ?
And if we can ' t ?
Destroy the world ' s best chance for a sustainable future ?
Bruce , if you want to save the world you have to start trusting it .
Doesn ' t count . You have no choice .
I told you , money first .
He ' s not a mark . Jen looks at Selina . At Wayne .
And he doesn ' t have a cent to his name , anyway .
Yeah , it ' s not much . But it ' s more that you ' ve got right now .
The rich don ' t even go broke same as the rest of us , huh ?
Let ' s just say that I ' ve incurred the wrath of some people less susceptible to my charms than you .
And how would he do that ?
It doesn ' t exist .
Why ?
Tell him I ' ll think about it . Wayne nods , starts to leave .
Mr . Wayne ? I ' m sorry they took all your money .
Do you have keys ? Wayne looks a little helpless all of a sudden .
Let ' s find a window .
Fox worked the board like you ' ve never seen - I ' m in , Daggett ' s out and he ' s not happy . Wayne sets down the newspaper :
Suffering builds character . Then at a photo of Wayne ' s parents .
I ' ll take care of your parents ' legacy , Bruce . Miranda picks up a photo of Rachel .
Who ' s this ? Wayne looks at her . Can ' t find words ...
Where ' s Alfred ?
What ' s that ?
When I was a child we had almost nothing . But on the nights we had a fire , we felt very rich indeed . She returns to him , pulling a blanket around both of them .
Not always . Not when I was young .
An old mistake .
More than a few ... We could leave . Tonight . Take my plane . Go anywhere we wanted .
Don ' t be shy .
Wayne says you can get me the ' Clean Slate '.
On what ?
Still don ' t trust me , huh ? How can we change that ?
You asked . Catwoman jumps down . Batman follows . Catwoman leads him down into a service tunnel ...
From here , Bane ' s men patrol the tunnels ... and they are not your average brawlers .
He ' s behind you .
Just a little further . A grate slams down , separating them - the lights come on . He is deep inside .
I had to find a way to stop them trying to kill me .
Would you mind ?
Don ' t tell me , still in love ?
Girl ' s gonna eat .
Maybe it ' s not you I ' m running from .
That you should be as afraid of him as I am .
I ' m not sure .
Why , honey , you wanna hold my hand ?
Bruce got a lot of things right . Keeping the board in the dark wasn ' t one of them ... Fox swings the doors to the boardroom open ...
Alright , stop . She walks up to the scanner . Places her hand on it . It beeps . She turns to Fox . Quietly pleading .
Lucius , you ' ll kill this man and yourself , and barely slow them down . Fox reluctantly puts his hand on the scanner . Then Fredericks . The core glows brighter and brighter . Dr . Pavel is transfixed .
Who ' s that ?
This was someone ' s home .
Now it ' s everyone ' s home .
' Storm ' s coming ', remember ? This is what you wanted .
No . It ' s what I thought I wanted .
And as CEO of Wayne Enterprises , I have to take responsibility for it .
Because , Captain , we built it .
How about me , instead ?
My company built it .
And he wanted to destroy it . It was me who didn ' t listen . Please . Gordon looks at Blake . Then Miranda . Nods .
You boys know you can ' t come into my neighborhood without asking politely .
Never steal anything from someone you can ' t outrun , kid .
Just tax . She tosses him the apple . He takes it and runs .
You came back . I thought they ' d killed you .
If you ' re expecting an apology -
And why would I help you ?
You ' re gonna trust me with that ? After what I did to you ?
Start fresh ? I can ' t even get off this island .
Why do you need Fox ?
Who says it needs saving ? Maybe I like it this way .
Get your powerful friend on the case .
Bruce ?
Do what ' s necessary .
Sorry to spoil things , boys , but Bane wants these guys himself ... The thugs pull Wayne and Fox to their feet - Miranda looks up .
I know .
He should be so lucky . And she ' s gone . Fox turns to Wayne . Who shrugs .
Oh , you shouldn ' t have ... She hops on , feeling the controls .
I got it .
No , I ' ve got forty - five minutes to get clear of the blast radius , because you don ' t stand a chance against these guys .
I ' ll open that tunnel , then I ' m gone .
Sorry to keep letting you down . He says nothing . She looks at him , imploring . Come with me . Save yourself . You don ' t owe these people anymore - you ' ve given them everything ...
I am . Miranda has a knife through Batman ' s suit , into his ribs ... And though I am not ' ordinary ', I am a citizen ...
I climbed out of the pit ... INSERT CUT : Young Talia stands by the hole looking out at the landscape ... I found my father and brought him back to exact terrible vengeance - but by that time ... the prisoners and the doctor had done their work to my friend ... my protector ... Talia reaches up to touch Bane ' s mask .
The League took us in . Trained us ...
He saw only a monster who could never be tamed . Whose very existence was a reminder of the hell he ' d left his wife to die in . He excommunicated Bane from the League of Shadows . His only crime was that he loved me . I could not truly forgive my father ... Talia looks at Batman , cold . Until you murdered him .
' Innocent ' is a strong word to throw around Gotham , Bruce . I honor my father by finishing his work . Vengeance against the man who killed him is simply a reward for my patience ...
Gordon . You gave him a way to block my signal . No matter - He ' s bought Gotham eleven minutes . ( Shouts at Mercenary .) Prepare a convoy . We must secure the bomb until it detonates . Talia jumps to her feet . Bane grabs a shotgun from a Mercenary - points it at Batman .
Not yet ... I want him to feel the heat . Feel the fire of twelve million souls you failed . Talia reaches up to Bane ' s mask , reconnects his tubes , tenderly . Goodbye , my friend . Bane nods at her , slowly . Talia moves out with the Mercenaries .
The whole no - guns thing ? I don ' t feel as strongly about it as you do .
Pushing us to the entrance of the reactor . They ' re going to try and reconnect the core .
Fox showed me how to operate the reactor core . Including the emergency flood -
There is no way to stop this bomb . Prepare yourselves ... ( Looks up at Batman .) My father ' s work is done .
Rig it out to fly over the water , then bail -
You could ' ve gone anywhere . Been anything . But you came back here .
I guess we ' re both suckers . She puts her arms around his neck . Kisses him . Batman moves to the Bat , Gordon alongside .
