No . Should I ?
No . Just as if I ' d like to .
Not tonight . Bad timing . Sorry -
Look , it ' s either you or the rent and I don ' t mind telling you it ' s not an easy choice .
Uh - huh .
Go find the wealthy lady you came with and next time we meet - I ' ll pay your rent . Now bugger off .
Mmmm .
What are you doing here ?
I see . You ' re not just another pretty face ..
Would you mind if I ' m on top ?
Damn it ! Find what ?
- right .. where is it ?
Where ' s the bloody -
- this is very disconerting ..
- right ..
Do what ?
Oh yes . Absolutely . Much too long I should yes .
Indeed .
The necklace ?
I ' m missing something here , aside from a 500 , 000 pound necklace . Even after I botched the job , I could ' ve walked out of there with the bloody thing .
If you weren ' t going to let me get away with it , why did you let me go thru with it ?
May I say something , no offence ? You look like a gigolo , you sound like a thief , you act like a cop - what the bloody hell do you have in mind ?
Sounds smashing . I ' m in . Muchacho , mi carro , por favor ! Now be serious . You couldn ' t possibly want me off tonight ' s performance ..
You ' re apologizing for me ? Quite the gentleman ..
I don ' t do laundry , or put up with cheeky bastards who set me up on their territory so they can poach on mine .
Hola ..
Where did you get this number ? I don ' t even have it !
Listen to what ?
Your help ? What are you talking about ?
Oh bloody hell . You ' re a spy .
Uh - oh .
Oh .. oh ..
Well , Ethan Hunt , what is it you want to talk to me about ?
Awfully short notice ..
Who wants to be decent ?..
When they ' ve got your recruiting technique ? Not a thing .
They ' ve got a book for this ?
The only other spook I knew was a liar . Charming but absolutely incapable of telling the truth . He ' d lie about his favorite color . But then I reckon it ' s an occupational hazard . All spies really do is conceal the truth and tell lies .
That ' s not the point . In the end what spies rely on is the one thing they think they know that you don ' t .
That they ' re lying .
You ' re not a liar . Or you ' re an awfully good one .. .. this thing these blokes pinched ..
Well , then , what I am I doing here ? I assume I ' m meant to be some sort of thief - to catch - a - thief ..
Spoken like a spook .. you ever afraid ?
Ask a question , you get an answer !..
That ' s because I ' m on my back .
carefully places the little Minolta on a glass - topped coffee table . She ' s beautifully pulled together , the safehouse has the lights low , flamenco music playing , and when she walks out onto the balcony Ethan sees the candlelit table and a bottle of champagne chilling . There ' s a light breeze the fire from the burning effigies throwing smoke and flame all over the city .
What ' s the population of Seville any idea ?
There ' s nearly 2 million in London .
That ' s lot of people out there .. how many of them , I wonder , are capable of something like that ?
Right ...
Not that it matter much but .. I seem to recall you staying something like , ' I was hoping we could work together .'
But it is what you ' d like me to do . so tell me to do it ..
I ' d like a little more conviction ..
You ' ve either got it or you don ' t . Let your conscience be your guide ?
But I don ' t have a conscience . I ' m a bloody thief .
No . You can be a thief and have a conscience : Not me . Why did you have to tell me about this ! What do I have to do to get away from this guy ? When you ' re with him , he messes about with your head every waking moment .. even now I ' ll be at some out - of - the - way - place , a tin of caviar and a bottle of Crystal shows up at the table , with two glass , God knows how he finds out at any given moment where I am in the world but he does . And it looks like he ' s done it again . You know his definition of a true paranoid ?
Someone in possession of all the facts . Are you telling me I have to do this ?
And that ' s the only reason ?
Not me . I was just hoping you might .. or that .. somehow in the course of business this got personal as well as physical .
Much .
Sean will never be anything but suspicious if he picks up some sort of ' yoo - hoo - I ' m - not - nad ' message . Not after the way we broke up .
Probably that I needed him in some urgent way .. destitute - in serious trouble .. the kind I couldn ' t possible sort out myself ..
This doesn ' t seem to be accomplishing much .
Very funny .. maybe he has heard and doesn ' t want to know . Maybe he ' s lost interest .
What lawyer ?
Limo ' s waiting .
When will you be there ?
How can you possibly ? I ' ve got to get right on the plane . I ' m leaving now .
Oh , I do . But as we know I ' m a very poor judge of character .
Yes ?
Ethan , you take care of yourself , I ' ll take care of myself because if push comes to shove , I ' m gonna bail - and without giving two week notice .
The speedboat ' s engine ' s are cut . Nyah looks momentarily stricken .
takes a deep breath , presses the button to scramble the transponder .
I left in a bit of a hurry . I ' m terribly grateful , Sean .
Well that depends .
How hard you had to work to get me out of there .. how in the world did you ever find me ?
How do you that .
Ahh ..
Your room .
And my room ?
No changing room ?
You ' re not interested in seeing how it looks .
Did you say something ?
Only because .. it ' s spring .. chalk it up - to spring fever .
Maybe that ' s it , then . Everything ' s upside down and backwards ...
I suppose I did .
' Thief in the Night ?'
Pardon me ?
Where are you ?
Just like old times .
Just about ..
Near as I can tell , there ' s at least a half - dozen other blokes about the place . Maybe more . Hugh Stamp , an old mate of Sean ' s , is the only one I recognize , bit of a creep and then some ..
- Michael , his driver ' s an Aussie , new to me . Then there ' s the blokes in the annex at the back of the house .
Annex is strictly off limits to me and they never come to the main house , Michael even takes their meals to them all but shoves them under the door .
Ambrose has photographs of newspapers with loads of money piled on them -- thirty - seven million on the London Times . What ' s that about ?
-- his left jacket pocket .
Where do I meet you ?
I ' ll muddle through .
Yeah . Naturally vain -- but they ' re about to close the betting table and I haven ' t a sou ..
Would you mind terribly ?
I ' ve no doubt ..
To win ?
passes Stamp , not seeing him standing just a row above , blocked from her by one of the pillars . Stamp idly regards her and then decides : he follows .
I managed .
too ) What race are we talking about ?
What are you talking about ?
Why ? What ' s happened . What did you see ?
Ethan , tell me - BILLY ' S VOICE Twenty , nineteen ..
How do you suggest I go about it ?
tries not to register alarm while she gauges how much Stamp had seen .
Just ..
Well , that ' s good , isn ' t ?
Sean , there ' s something I ' ve been meaning to talk to you about ... Isn ' t going to be easy for me to say .
I don ' t know what to do about you , Sean . I ' m more than a bit muddled . I need time .
Sort it all out .
A change of plans ?
Oh , no , not at all . Maybe just a bit .
Lovely .
International , please . I ' d like to make a reservation on the next available flight tonight .
Where is next available flight going ?
Fine . I ' ll take it .
Ulrich ?.. Ulrich !...
Oh Ethan !..
I am now . Get me out of here . Just get me out of here .
Ethan , you know what frightens me most when I ' m with him ?.. the thought of never seeing you .. how are we getting out of here ?
What ? You told me to get out of here . I thought you were here to collect me . I was so relieved .
length from Ethan ) This isn ' t exactly working out the way you thought it would , Ethan . Sorry .
You ' re not going to shoot , Sean . Not this bitch . She ' s worth thirty - seven million pounds .
I wasn ' t thinking ! Just .. trying to keep you from getting hurt , that ' s all .
her ) I guess I lied .. You can ' t get both of us out of here , can you ?
Then you ' ll have to kill me before it ' s too late . Before I start killing people .
I ' m infected with Chimera . You know you don ' t have a choice . Just do it now .
Not as much as you feel like hearing it .
If it ' ll make you feel any better I won ' t do it again .
What are you talking about ?
Do you know me ?
is inches from him . Without batting an eye .
No . You just looked as if you did .
Oh . Well ..
