Good morning , Jack . I ' ll be your flight attendant for the day . This is day ... three thousand two hundred and twenty five , in case you were wondering . JACK is running instruments . A day at work ..
Today we will be running support on five Resource Gatherers working the seaboard . Coordinates coming to you ... now . Please do confirm . On Jack ' s heads - up display , five icons glow to life .
Drone perimeter defense is intact , although one went offline last night . How ' s the drop ?
Alright , you ' re blind in five , four , three ... INTERCUT WITH JACK IN THE BUBBLESHIP . JACK watches the cloud wall RUSH UP at him .
Two ... one ...
No , thank you . Have a nice ride . The Bubbleship HITS CLOUDS , goes completely blind . Just vapor and water HAMMERING the canopy like bullets . On the heads - up display , GPS numbers roll . The readouts deal with climate , terrain below ... Even in this hell , Jack takes the controls , starts to pilot on instruments . One of Victoria ' s boards flashes . She squints as a large MASS forms near Jack ' s ship .
Jack , you got some weather on your five , closing . The Bubbleship is VIBRATING , buffeted .
Okay , we ' ve got another Drone downed last night .
Would you like to set a course to reserve fuel ?
Yo no se . No data . It ' s not transmitting . Tet coverage will go live in 11 minutes . Jack stares forward at a huge broken sign : " Home of the 2015 World Champions ..."
Please do not reminisce on my Comm , thank you very much . He puts the Bubbleship into a soft descent . Victoria observes it on her console .
Negative , technician . I have no eyes in the sky for another ten minutes . Do not land . SEEN FROM INSIDE A STADIUM TUNNEL : The bubbleship lands thirty yards from the Drone , moors itself by setting spikes from its skids . Blowing sand whips around both .
Jack I have no scope . The Tet is still offline . He pauses . A faint sound on the wind ... like a whine .
What do you mean taken ? Was it a malfunction ? Jack looks at the casing ... beaten , pried open ? He glances at the ground around him , the dark tunnels . REVERSE ANGLE . From inside a caved - in tunnel entrance , Jack looks small , vulnerable . Something watches Jack ...
Jack , you need to get out of there . Bring it home to the shop . Jack has a panel open . He pulls a lead from the sleeve of his suit , connects it to a board . We see FLIGHT DATA transfer to the Bubbleship .
Jack , you know they can weaponize a fuel cell . Now a DRIVER shoots out of the tool cuff of his suit .
I ' m reading the whole central core off alignment , you don ' t have the necessary tools . Jack ' s got an arm and half his chest inside . He takes his CHEWING GUM , presses it in next to a board ... Systems go green on Victoria ' s console .
Hold on , what did you just do ?
Jesus , Jack . What the hell was that ? INTERCUT VICTORIA . The Tet ' s scanners finally giving her a high - rez thermal view of Jack . Her display burning red from the residual plasma fire .
Jack , what happened ? Nowtrudging to the ship :
You . He leans against the ship . Smiles tired . It ' s a nice thing to hear .
We only have two more months , Jack . Please try to resist the urge to do something stupid .
There ' s no Drone signal there .
It ' s not doing anyone any good here . JACK nods , starts to turn away when something GLINTS on the horizon . He raises the Binocs , PANS to a gallows - like structure . He ZOOMS , but it is still unclear .
Jack , without a signal , you ' re looking for a needle in a haystack . I think we ' ve had enough excitement for one day . JACK is at the back of the Bubbleship , throwing levers .
Mission , this is Lieutenant Victoria Kohl , requesting Drone intercept at coordinates sending now . Her AUDIO goes through a SCRAMBLING PROCESS , then is uploaded where a few seconds later its receipt is acknowledged : STATUS : " APPROVED ." She stares up at the map , sees one of the Drones turn towards Jack ' s location . She settles back , watching .
Check your seven . Jack touches his controls and the Bubbleship Canopy REVOLVES so Jack ' s facing away from the direction he ' s traveling in . Low on the HORIZON , the TET floats in the sky . It ' s setting , glows a dull orange , like a Harvest Moon . INTERCUT VICTORIA . She ' s leaning back in her command chair , her feet propped on the console , also staring out at the Tet . Strangely quiet . In Jack ' s face a curious mixture of nostalgia , and confusion ... This small metal planet is his home .
You ' re not supposed to bring up surface items . JACK sips water , then waits even longer before ...
I tried to reach you earlier ... If we ' re going to be an effective
Then you can ' t just -- Jack leaps up , only to return a second later with a small bundle held together by an old rag . He hands it to her , pleased , watching her reaction . She opens it to reveal a small GREEN SEEDLING in a pocket of fresh , rich soil . Her eyes play over it ...
Where did you find this ?
I know you think I ' m a stickler for the rules , but you have no idea what sort of toxins could be in something like that . He chuckles ...
I ' m sorry , I don ' t think it ' s funny .
That ' s not the point . We have two more months and the last thing we need is you putting it all at risk . He shakes his head , grimaces as he limps away .
You ' re hurt . What happened ? He admits it with a glance , offers no explanation . She comes over to him , examines the wound professionally .
Come on .
This is gonna pinch a little ...
Serves you right . She kisses him on the forehead , turns away .
. I ' m not saying you can ' t go into your caverns , I ' m saying we have a job and if I ' m trying to reach you and you ' re off on one of your adventures --
It ' s only a little while longer . The Gatherer ' s have collected most of the resources we need for Mars . Pretty soon --
You act like there ' s not a war going on down there but there is and we can ' t leave even two of those things alive ...
Please be careful . If they get to you , what happens to me ? JACK puts a finger to her lips , then kisses her .
Answer the question . Jack considers this . Then he pulls his shirt off over his head . For sex ?
Jack .
Can you imagine when we go back up ? Having a face to face conversation again ? I can ' t believe it ' s finally ending .
I wonder what duty I would have pulled . Probably programming the Mars boats .
Stop !
I ' ve been happy here . With you . from her hand ) I can ' t remember zero gravity . Physically . Can you ?
I should have seen that coming . Jack smiles , then takes a breath and goes under . He floats face - down , staring through the bottom of the pool into the lightening - stung clouds below ... . and then Victoria ' s form glides underneath him , looking up at him , smiling . She stops moving and her body rises towards his . He opens his arms , and she floats up and against him . They embrace , kiss ... Two bodies , intertwined underwater , a thousand feet above a roiling thunderstorm . Their lips part , he pulls back to look at her ... But it ' s the BRUNETTE WOMAN who stares back at him !!
Don ' t go out today until we get a signal . Jack looks back . She ' s never said this before . She ' s genuinely worried .
A hundred terraformed acres on Mars is all you have to think about .
I love you . He waves , blows the chocks . The WIND whipping off the tops of the clouds instantly grabs the ship , HURTLES it into the void . WITH JACK , just letting the wind twist him and the ship in freefall . Loving this feeling . Victoria . turns professionally to her console . THE TET SYMBOL ON THE SCREEN , the COUNT DOWN TO TET - RISE . She opens video streams , loses herself in her work .
Time as indicated . Technical officer away on autonomous patrol as of this transmission . Border Beacons surrounding the radiation sector are 100 % operative ...
You ' re welcome ... Victoria takes a sip of coffee , turns to another task , when again a BLIP on her map pulls Victoria ' s attention back . That signal , radiating near Jack ' s position . She swipes up a grid , intensifies her sensors ...
Jack ... I ' ve got a rogue signal . Might just be interference , but there shouldn ' t be anything there .
No ... It ' s .. I ' m not sure what it is . INTERCUT Jack listening to her in the Bubbleship .
On its way . Be careful , okay ?
Jack , you ' re right on top of it . What do you see ? Jack starts a circuit of the deck . A pile of old deck chairs in his way , he pushes at them with his foot ... finds a WIRE , running below them , linked to two CAR BATTERIES , hidden under the rubbish . He traces the path of the wire ... up .
What did you find ?
Define reactivated . Jack looks at the batteries , the wire ...
Jack , that signal ' s going out over the whole territory . You need to blow the structure .
It ' s ancient history , Jack . You know the procedure . Blow it . He pulls several CHARGES from the Bubbleship ' s storage , starts to set them ... He pauses , staring at the railing , the old telescope . Change of plans . He walks towards the batteries , a blade sliding out of the cuff of his suit . He reaches them and SEVERS the lines . The signal dies .
Check your course , you ' re headed right at the border .
You ' re at the edge of range , Jack . You ' re starting to break up .
No , it ' s not okay . You get in too close that radiation --
What are -- you ---- out there Jack ? The signal goes to pure static as Jack steers into a steep canyon , rock on all sides . Barely room to squeeze , but Jack ' s not worried . This is all familiar .
Jack ...? Victoria works the panel , upping signal , boosting reception . The static is again MIXED WITH GARBLED SOUNDS . She listens , confused , ups the volume ... BLIP ! That signal from the Empire State starts again . This time it LOCKS ON , a loud and continuous electronic pattern .
Jack ? Jack , I really need you online ...
Mission , this is Lieutenant Victoria Kohl , requesting a link . I may have a situation ... A beat while the connection is made , then ...
I have a rogue signal of unknown origin . I ' m sending you a relay .
Technician is ... experiencing technical difficulties ... She winces , that wasn ' t the greatest lie . Waits ...
Yes , we ' re an effective team .
We ' re happy , to be coming home .
Will communicate findings on next Tet cycle . Understood . Victoria clocks off . Stares at the border area on the map where she last saw Jack . A KLAXON goes off in her workspace . Victoria STARTS . For the first time she seems confused as she works the console . She can ' t immediately figure it out ... Suddenly she brings up a WIDE SCAN for tracking the Tet , The whole Eastern Coast of the continent . And something is closing , coming over the poles , FAST .
Where the hell have you been ? Jack ' s silent , not wanting to lie . INTERCUT VICTORIA , looking at streaming info from TET .
It ' s an external . An alien ship . It ' s a God damn Scav vessel in the Western Valley .
Turn around , Jack . The Drones will handle the situation .
Just for once wait for your orders on this one , Jack . This is serious . Jack is silent , unsure . The crash site growing closer ...
Technician . This is your Control . Turn around .
You heard me . Another hard beat . Jack hating this but ...
I ' m not confirming this from the Tet .
Well it didn ' t recognize her . It ' s machinery . It ' s programmed
I don ' t know what the machinery did or didn ' t do . There ' s protocol ...
Go get the cutter , and a breather , and my big bag . Now . The Pod ' s been damaged , she ' s not doing well , let ' s get her out of there . Jack moves . Victoria , almost holds back , but ...
. This has to be reported . HE SPINS . Stares at her . Really angry .
Right there , be careful ... Jack directs the blue arc towards a seal . The Pod depressurizes with a sudden exhale of dead air . Jack pulls back the pod door . Inside , the woman lies in a gauzy sleep suit . Her hair is matted . Her body looks frail , her skin translucent , veins dark , lips blue , like a drowning victim . Vika pulls her feeding tube , takes her pulse , checks her eyes , lifting the lids .
Lift her up , we have to get some air into her . JACK gets his arms around the woman , pulling her upwards . FLUID seeps from her mouth ... And suddenly she ' s ALIVE , COUGHING , spewing fluid across Jack and the floor . He sets her down as she painfully wretches , then SUCKS IN AIR . Her eyes flutter open . She ' s suddenly violently ill again . Instinctively , Jack goes to hold her --
No . Don ' t . Let her get the fluid out . The woman stops heaving . Looks up at both of them ... She tries to stand , disoriented by the glass walls , the infinite vertigo that surrounds them . She falls to her knees and stares with amazement down into the clouds . Jack kneels beside her , puts a hand on her shoulder .
We need to get her cleaned up .
We have to get her up to the Tet .
I don ' t have the facilities here . Once she ' s stable ...
What ' s going on ? He shakes his head . He has no idea .
Here . Drink this . You ' re dehydrated ... You ' ve been in a very bad crash . Your ship came down . This DISTURBS the woman . She tries to sit up .
What ' s your name ?
You need to rest quietly . You ' ve been in delta sleep for a long time .
How long ...?
Best guess ? About 65 years . Julia takes that in ...
Where ' s Jack ...? Julia STARTS . Looks down at her arm where Victoria has just slid a needle under her skin . She stares at her , almost afraid . Victoria depresses the plunger .
Shhhhhh ...
Tomorrow , I ' ll report that we have her . Jack nods , but won ' t look at her . Deep in thought .
Jack ...
Jack , please . This isn ' t why we ' re here . This is just what we have to do before our real lives begin . We ' ve given them five years and now we get to go home .
I know . That was the world before . Your little obsession ...
Please . Please . Don ' t you understand ? We have a chance to be on the first boats out , to be the first to settle Mars , raise a family . Five years . Proof that we are an effective team .
Everything we ' ve wanted is waiting for us up there . Please , Jack .
A bit more ... located .
I don ' t remember . I should get back to the ship . I might be able to find the flight recorder .
Have you ever seen a ship like that ?
I wonder what brought us back ?
We ' ll never really know without the flight recorder . She says we can ' t go down there , that it ' s too dangerous . He laughs a little , shakes his head .
What ?
Have I ? An awkward beat , then :
. You look like someone I once knew . I understand I owe you my life . Thank you , Jack . They shake . A weird moment . She breaks away , looks back at the Tet which now glows a pale orange on the horizon .
What happens now ?
From ... the ` Pet ?
You fly that thing ?
Alright then . Don ' t you want to know ?
Jack ! What are you doing ?
She shouldn ' t be -- Julia turns on Victoria , quickly .
Thank you . I feel very well . Then , coldly , she boards the ship .
Jack , please .
That ' s not it . I can ' t protect you with the Tet offline and I just have a very bad ...
Jack ... This isn ' t just about protocol . I ' m trying to understand .
So I guess I ' m around ... a hundred years old .
A dry planet ... He nods at the Tet , rising in the distance .
What about you ?
Sorry . She stares back down at the landscape .
It ' s so beautiful . He looks at her , surprised . He thought he was the only one ...
No ! NO ! It ' s been taken . DAMN
It matters , okay !? You don ' t ... you can ' t understand ... I need that flight recorder . I need to know what happened .
Jack ! Jack ! There ' s something coming your way . JACK !!"
You ' re staring at me .
JACK ! JACK ...!
It reminds me of home ...
He ' s disappeared .
. Six hours .
The Scavs took him . I witnessed it . He has a ... A beat . Victoria experiencing jealousy she didn ' t fully understand before ...
There ' s a woman with him . The survivor of the crashed shuttle , Julia Sommerville . Silence .
I told you , she ' s with the Technical Officer . I ' m requesting permission to re - task the Drones for search and rescue .
Yes , I mean . I don ' t know . Tet Comm Status : " COMMUNICATION ENDED ."
Jack , what he said about the Tet ...
Jack ! Jack ! There ' s something coming your way . JACK !!!! Victoria LISTENS , chilled . She hits REWIND , then PLAY :
I ' m trying to .
What are you doing out there so far , Jack ? Then the static for a moment filled with GARBLED SOUNDS . Victoria hits STOP . She stares . Makes an adjustment , plays the SOUNDS again . Something drawing her in ...
The bomb ... She REALIZES something , wheels on Beech , angry .
You brought down the Odyssey . You sonofabitch you crashed our ship . There were people on board , all so you could get --
The Tet ... is an alien ship , Jack . The odyssey ' s mission --- Our mission , was to investigate it . Jack shakes his head no . Angry ...
It was you , Jack .
You and Victoria . We were all on the Odyssey . We were supposed to make contact ...
NO !! Jack stares Sykes down .
What happened ...? She ' s staring into the distance where an old WRECK of a RESOURCE GATHERER lies shattered against a cliff - face .
. And I want a dishwasher , the kind that you can put --
Okay , fine . No dishwasher . How about just you . All the time .
What will you do now ? Jack doesn ' t answer . He moves to the edge of the deck , stares out , unwilling to meet her eyes .
Jack , you can ' t turn them in . He glances at her , shakes his head .
You and I started the same year at
It wasn ' t really about space for me , it was about ... what could be out there . Life ...
But for you , it was always the stars . You wanted to fly further and faster than any one else .
I ' m talking about a man I knew , who was fearless . A man who wouldn ' t bow out of a fight , ever .
No , you don ' t . That thing brainwashed you , it erased your
That ' s right ... What do you remember ? INTERCUT : The auto - piloted Bubbleship skims over the surface of downtown , headed towards the Empire State ... Jack is staring at the telescope , agitated , confused .
Ten days before we got our go - ahead , you asked me to meet you here .
Don ' t you remember what happened here ? INTERCUT : The Bubbleship now moving UP the waterfall . Victoria , leaning forward , watching the feeds ... Julia takes one of his hands , places it around her waist . Moves closer still ...
There are a few pages missing , but it ' s the same book .
Go to hell . Beat . Beat .
No . A long painful silence . Tears flow without sobs . Tet Comm Status : " COMMUNICATION ENDED ." Victoria . pushes away from the console , numb . As she leaves the room , we STAY on the console ... which suddenly comes alive . Readouts go active , data history starts to play . The Tet is accessing everything . Visual and Voice recordings blaze by . Images , everything the Bubbleship has seen . We see the image of Raven Rock sent from the ROVER .
I saw you . I saw you two .
Stay away from me with the truth ! I don ' t want the truth . I preferred oblivion . Victoria looks up , sees Julia in the distance ...
You never really loved me , did you , Jack ? His silence is LOUD . She LAUGHS , tears flowing ...
I told them . The drones will be here . For her . For you .
Oh , Jack . I think they made us . Victoria steps backwards . Jack LUNGES forward .
Where are we going ?
And if he ' s just a crazy old man ? Jack looks at her . It ' d be a funny moment , but it ' s not .
No . Jack nods , turns the ship north again . The Bubbleship shaking and smoking . Up ahead , the RIDGELINE approaching . WARNING ALARMS trigger on the Bubbleship ' s display Claxon - like .
What is that ?
Jack ...
Don ' t touch me . Don ' t She lurches away from him , body running on fear and adrenaline . Jack nods , accepting her terror of him .
Okay ... He spreads the HEALANT over her wound , activates it . For a moment , nothing . Then the skin starts to knit . And Julia starts to SCREAM ...
I ' m sorry . Jack ...
He loved this song . Jack sits , shivering , looking out at the lake . She moves to him , wraps a blanket around him .
He was arrogant , and annoying , and the best man I ' d ever known . Some distant part of Jack smiles at that .
. And I loved him .
Shhhhh . Yes you are . She rests her head against on his shoulder , holds him . Simple , caring . His eyes ... close .
It wants me . Bring me to it . I ' m right . You know I am . It ' s the only way .
Is it ready ? Julia is standing at the entrance to the room . He nods and she approaches , STARES at what will be her coffin .
Let ' s just do it . She moves to climb in , then turns to Jack and kisses him . It ' s a kiss filled with a lifetime of kisses missed . Finally , it breaks . She backs away , into the Pod , next to the BOMB . Trembling as the door starts to CLOSE . Suddenly , she ' s very scared . Fighting back panic .
Jack ... Jack !! The door closes , SEALS . Jack stares down at her through the carapace . He puts a hand on the glass . She puts hers on the other side .
. I got this . He touches a button and a pale gas starts to fill the chamber . Julia realizes that this will be her last moment of consciousness . Trembling , crying , afraid ...
Jack ... And she falls asleep . Jack stares at her sleeping form .
Jack ?
Well , almost everyone . A MAN stands at the edge of the water , on the opposite side . He wears the wrecked remains of a worksuit , and carries a pack . It is Jack 2 . He ' s aged three years , his hair has grown , his boots are scavenged . He has travelled a long way , and we know that as he stares across the water , he knows exactly what he is looking at .
It ' s your father . Come on , let ' s go pick him up .
