Now we end the debate about tactics ... and begin to plan for victory .
My own subjects condemn me ! They dare judge me ? And what emboldens this treachery ?...
He cuckolds me in my castle , rapes my precious Queen ! This is a low , conniving God ... But I have bested him on this day and humbled the great Prime .
Tell me what the Priests say !
Yes , Tiamat ! And today I have honored her . The King whirls and staggers up the crest of the dune .
I ' ve taken Zeus ' whore and the bastard she grows in her belly and thrown them to Tiamat in her rough sea !
so that Zeus will know I despise and disdain him and spit on his foul name ! The Steward shrinks from this blasphemy , eyes darting in fear . ON THE CREST the King is silhouetted in the moonlight , arms raised defiantly toward the heavens , when suddenly -- -- his figure is seized by some violent force , shaking and THE KING ' S BODY GROWS LARGER AS IT DISTORTS IN
My lord .

Silence ! Or learn what it is to be afraid ! The debate is over , the votes cast ... Zeus points to a golden tray ; it bears TEN chips of alabaster versus TWO shards of obsidian .
We guarantee an armistice , we shield the bridegroom and the Joppan royal family .
They have suffered terrible losses . They will not pass up a chance for peace .
I ' ve received ambassadors before .
None like this .
I ' m not cowed . If these arrogant Gods are so powerful , why are they the ones seeking a truce ?
I only recommend you take care with the tone of the conversation . A truce would benefit all ...
In my palace , I decide how the discourse proceeds , not some messenger sent on errands by Zeus .
... as do all Gods ... and all men . Thoth removes his hood , revealing his crystal skull .
King Kepheus , as humble messenger of Zeus , I ' ve come to talk of peace .
Thoth the Quick , I am Amoun , the King ' s Magi Strategos . We welcome you with humility , honored by your visit from the realm of the Gods . The King shoots Amoun a look , but he is still shaken by Thoth ' s sudden appearance . Cassiopeia tries to recover her composure .
I am a reasonable man . Everyone wishes for the conflict to cease .
Zeus above all . He has so long desired the tragedy end , he made a plan that began twenty - five years ago .
Beauteous Queen , let Thoth limn for you the forethought and wisdom of Zeus , God of Gods .
A treaty marriage ?
You have a daughter of age .
Surely Zeus does not ask a mortal father to give his daughter to a God .
No . Such a union would be unclean . Years ago Zeus created a scion of mixed blood . Half - man , half - God . Bred for just this union . That is how important Zeus considers this truce .
A prince , of both Olympian and Human royalty . A chosen one .
I have heard of no such demigod .
Majesty , if I may -- the young man does exist . He lives in a small fishing village on the isle of Seriphos . Kepheus turns , surprised at Amoun ' s foreknowledge .
You knew about this and said nothing ?
My Queen , I serve only the great order of things . I was the boy ' s tutor years ago .
How haughty this boy must be , who knows he is half - God .
He knows nothing and believes himself an ordinary man . He has never left his village . He can be overconfident , but it is from inexperience , not arrogance . Repheus and Cassiopeia exchange wary looks . Sharply
With our daughter ' s future at stake , we do not bestow trust easily .

Of course ... of course your word is unquestioned here . Thoth ' s demeanor changes . The marbles spill off the table , rolling across the floor to Kepheus ' feet . TILT UP TO his intimidated face :
Where is the lucky young suitor ?
Your grieving does Anteros no good . It comforts only you .
It ' s my fault he ' s gone .
He was careless with the net . Perseus gives him a hard look .
So it ' s his fault . Not mine , not fate , not the Gods ?
The Gods delude themselves about their power and watch in envy while we act . We make our own history .
Now my history is I let my friend die in my arms . I made it back , why couldn ' t he ?
What you do , no other man can do . Have you not noticed ?
To what purpose ? I failed him .
Purpose ! Looking for purpose is what ensnares men in the superstition of the Gods , as surely as your friend was caught in that net . And all the searching leads down to the same place . The trawler is approaching its home island , Seriphos . Perseus looks off at the rocky coast . Collects himself ,
You always say that my abilities are greater than other men ' s . But they were not enough to save him .
You are still a man , confined by man ' s limits . You are just as likely to fail as succeed .
How is that greater than other men ?
Ordinary men fail most of the time . The trawler rounds a point on the island . Perseus spies a beautiful girl on the cliff . A closer
Your mother can explain . She believes everything has an explanation , even if we have to make it up .
If you consider superstition , fear and darkness good things ...
Learning , science ... love .
self - determination ! Those things that give Man dignity and independence .
-- as lions hunger for blood .
The Gods were desperate to claim our awe again .
Yes , even the Gods . If they could not earn our faith with love , they would demand it with fear . Whatever was necessary to ensure L their continued existence .
You ... I saw you watching our boat at the cliff .
Can I be of service ?
Right now ? It wouldn ' t take much persuading to get me to leave this village , but tonight is impossible . My family can ' t wake and find me gone . Where do you want me to go ?
Come back in the morning and we can talk about it .
For what ? Perseus doesn ' t notice the black widow spider scurry between her feet . Then a centipede , a scorpion . Then a swarm , racing toward him . He feels the first spider and looks down . The creatures climb his legs , biting . Weakening from the venom , he stumbles back into the table , loses his balance and falls .
How long have I been out ?
I had a dream . I fell into a dark pit . I thought I would never stop falling . But a beam of light formed a soft net , caught me and tossed me back . TheWilting Girl watches him .
When I came back up to the world , a beautiful woman appeared and spoke to me . But as she spoke she would sometimes disappear into the whiteness with a strange sound .
When I could hear her , she spoke nonsense . She said that my father was a God and my mother a -- At that moment the blinding - white sail swings between them as she tacks , obscuring his view of her for a moment . The wind makes a LOUD SNAPPING SOUND in the cloth . Then she reappears , the sail on her other side .
I am an ordinary man .
None of that means anything .
A good trick . You must be the demigod , not me .
A Chthonian ?
And when none worship you ? Sadness flickers through her extraordinary eyes .
And demigods , where do they stand in your hierarchy ?
If demigods rank so low , why do you need me ?
What !
Who , me ?
Forget it .
And just who exactly am I supposed to marry ?
It will take more than half - a - God to handle her .
I don ' t think so .
That ' s what I ' m doing .
What are they celebrating ?
. before I am a king or a peacemaker , I am a father . Do you know what that means ?
I ' m not sure , Your Highness . I did not know my father .
Yes , well ... it means I had no desire for my little girl ' s carefree springtime to be cut
AGAIN ) -- and all so she could be thrust into a momentous conflict ... of which she knows nothing at all .
She ' s not the only one , sir . I don ' t know much about the events for which I ' ve been drafted .

Is this amusing to you ?
Not even a little , my lord . It ' s just that I myself was waylaid -- snatched also , as you say , from my happy springtime ... Kepheus studies him to see if he ' s making jest of him .
I ' ve been told I ' m to play a part in events which serve a higher purpose ... of which I ' m not at all convinced .
Does a truce in the war between Men and Gods not strike you as a higher purpose ?
With all respect , I have never seen a God . On my island , they ' re no more than a story .
You will learn there is more to this universe than is found on your island .
Cassiopeia ! We have agreed such talk has no place in this palace .
I can only proceed based on what I have experienced , not on a faith I do not possess .
Where does a young person get such ideas ?
Perhaps from my adopted father , sir . I admire him greatly , and he believes in little he cannot hold in his hand .
Master Amoun ! He hurries over to the older man , who embraces him warmly .
Porpoise ... You ' ve grown tall and strong since my departure . Perseus laughs at his old nickname and holds Amoun at arm ' s length .
What are you doing here ?
I am honored to serve the King as an advisor . His Magi Strategos .
From my village tutor to Magi Strategos ... What a path ! The King ' s patience is exhausted . To Cassiopeia
Where is Andromeda ? At the least , the two should meet before tomorrow ' s ceremony ...
Tomorrow ? Is the wedding so soon ?
And a celebration of the treaty . A Page enters and whispers in Kepheus ' ear . Kepheus is irritated .
It seems our Andromeda has wandered away . Cassiopeia reacts , upset .
Perhaps the thought of her new life has made her frantic to enjoy the vestiges of her old one .
Perseus , if you ' re to take the wild girl for a wife , this is a good time to start your training . Go into the city and retrieve her .
How will I know her ?
I ' m a stranger here . Any hints ?
Follow the lights and the sound of profane music .
I said , ' Very beautiful .'
I know nothing of seduction . I ' m a simple fisherman . My home is across that water .
To Joppa ? I was kidnapped .
I ' ve come to see my future wife . Startled , Andromeda suddenly realizes who he is . A mad mix of emotions crosses her face .
Me either .
No one asked me . And now that I ' ve met you , I don ' t know if I can go through with it . It ' s not personal . Seeing you makes it real . I think a man should make his own decisions . I won ' t be the pawn of a King or a God . She looks at him with new interest .
I don ' t think it ' s going to be that simple . Ignoring that , she takes his arm , moving even closer .
I ' m already lost .

One of the most beautiful women I ' ve ever seen .
True . Maybe a lot of girls look like you .
What if we find we ' re very compat -- She stops him with another kiss . He starts to surrender to his desire , but again , he stops . Her voice is a low
It seems what everyone wants to believe . Her face is inches from his . She looks into his eyes .
I didn ' t know how to get this outfit on .
Me either .
Tell who ?
Leviathan awakes ...
. All monsters of the sea are but shadows of Leviathan the Kraken -- colossal , rapacious , and nigh indestructible . The men turn to Kepheus ; when he raises his face , he looks exhausted .
My Queen lies near death . Am I now to choose between the survival of our state ... and the life of Andromeda , my only child ? Amoun watches Perseus , at the fringe of the group , expectantly . But Perseus looks only perplexed , an observer .
Do you tell me only what you think I wish to hear !
PERSEUS ) No ... We need only the will to do it .
You ' re ' listening '? We ' re talking about the precious life of your betrothed . Perseus meets his gaze , confused .
Exactly ! A newcomer with a fresh perspective . Share your thoughts with the King , your future father - in - law . The ministers are puzzled by Amoun ' s persistence . Perseus , uncertainly --
I know that I am young and have not seen much of the world , but it seems to me that nothing is indestructible . The Ministers react to the young man ' s arrogance .
Father , how did you find me ?
I thought this boy ' s father was a God . How does a stranger walk unmolested into the Throne Room of the King ?
I sent for him , Lord . This good man raised Perseus from infancy . He will help him now .
Help him with what ?
With whatever is needed ... Perseus approaches the King . Surprising himself --
He will help me destroy Leviathan . Spyros does a double - take , then swallows : " Yeah , okay , sure ."
But how ? Perseus has no idea .
Majesty , we can seek the counsel of the Norn Sisters of Skolothia . They know the hidden ways of the Gods . If Leviathan can be slain , they ' ll know how to do it .
We have thirty days to find its weakness .
We ' ll leave tonight .
With what army ? I dare not weaken our forces when the city is about to be besieged .

My King , with your permission ... The King assents , seemingly lost . Amoun speaks to Perseus .
I ' ll give you a map and much more . I ' ll go with you and bring a small band of comrades to help you on your mission . We can leave at first light . Diokles , the map . The men move to the work area , where the Aide selects a map from dozens . Something catches Perseus ' eye .
We head north on the Via Dahlia . If we can make it to the Disputed Territories ... MOVE IN ON the tip of Amoun ' s pointer on the
Amoun , it seems an odd coincidence you came into my life as tutor , so long ago , and now , once again you instruct me .
No matter what you believe , Porpoise , some things are fated . I ' ve been looking forward to this journey for a long , long time . He spurs his horse , riding ahead . Spyros drops back beside Perseus .
Who would have thought we ' d be on a journey like this ? Two simple fishermen .
I ' m afraid I ' ve dragged you into real danger , Father , when I have little idea of what I ' m doing .
Living at the mercy of the sea so long has convinced me some adventures are unexpected and some dangers unavoidable . It ' s all in your attitude .
What ' s our attitude about destroying Leviathan ?
The Kraken is just another big fish . Perseus smiles , but is not as sanguine .
Joppa is pummelled by the Dark Goddess .
By what name may mortals call you ?
Who do your worshippers pray to ?
Perhaps that is why they are falling in number ?
I have to call you something ...
That ' s a pretty name . Wait , better yet -- ' Vidalia '? How ' s that ... ' Vidalia '? That ' s more than pretty , beautiful really , just as you are . She is pleased , self - conscious , concentrating on the road ahead .
You don ' t like it ? What ' s that ? I missed it --
More . The Mongols stare -- either not comprehending or ready to fight .
It must last all night . Get some more .
THEM ) I ' ll find some more .
Now is when an honorable man would turn around and walk away ...
Vidalia ...
Pegassi , stallions of the Gods .
Then this will be a good way to find out just what I am .
Stop it , rogues . One of our own has disappeared without a trace and all you can think is to cause mischief . What if Perseus is bucked to his death from a thousand feet up ?
Don ' t do this . If we go back to camp right now , we can avoid trouble and keep our goal in sight . A true leader will not be distracted .
I ' m not the leader , Draco , Amoun is . I ' m too young to start avoiding trouble . Perseus jumps up and approaches a roan Pegasus , speaking soothingly . It WHINNIES and threshes its wings , buffeting Perseus with gusts . The Pegasus rears up , and leaps over Perseus ' head . It lands behind him , bucks its hind legs , and kicks Perseus face - first into the dirt . Icos and Boreas are laughing , but when Draco gives them a dark look , Boreas jumps up , sobered , and heads into the clearing .
Perseus , get out of there ! Icos , fetch the others . Icos bolts . Draco and Boreas leap into the clearing with swords drawn to draw the monster ' s attention . Perseus does the same .
I told you to run , boy . You ' ll make things worse .
Boreas ! Draco hacks at the monster ' s leg , to no avail . it rips off Boreas ' head and swallows his body . Perseus CRIES OUT and leaps at the creature , sword swinging .
I didn ' t beckon the Humbaba .
The monster killed my friend . I could not contain my rage . But you , Goddess , are aloof from the emotions of Men . Vidalia ' s eyes narrow , enraged .
Master Amoun ... You knew about me , didn ' t you ? When you came to our village ?
Your birth was written in the stars . I sought you out and took it as my cause to teach you .
You chose a poor student . I have learned little and my mistakes cost dearly .
I do not believe my fate is to be half a God . No demigod could feel as confused as I do tonight .
Concentrate on the task before you . All answers will come with that .
You wanted to know about Djinn Raiders . Here they are .
Look sharp . Watch your surround .
Where is everyone ? Spyros HEARS something and follows the SOUND to a tent , weapon ready .
Draco , tell me what this -- Everyone is standing perfectly still . DARK FIGURES surround them . The transformed Cleon Legion lurches INTO VIEW . The only resemblance to the soldiers they were is their armor .. Now they ' re monstrous creatures : LOTOPHAGI .
Muster to me !
Come on ! You can pass through ! Draco bolts for the barrier . A Lotophagi spears Kosmo , killing him . Draco slides inside the swarm . He looks back at Kosmo in horror . Polluc slashes zombies and runs toward the swarm . He ' s almost there when one of the Lotophagi lands on him , sinking fangs into his skull . Polluc sticks his sword into the creature ; they both fall over dead . Icos and Spyros fight their way to the swarm and jump inside . Mongke and Tamburlane kill a Lotus - eater and leap over the corpse into the protected circle . The tide of HOWLING and SHRIEKING Lotophagi claw at the barrier of insects to no avail .
Only humans can penetrate the shield ! Perseus takes quick stock of the group inside the swarm , thinking .
Only humans ... He looks over the Lotophagi and sees Vidalia out there , alone , flinging sling - bullets as she fights her way toward the barrier .
Drop the barrier ! r
No ! It ' s too late for her !
Drop it , Amoun ! At that moment , Kalibos grabs Vidalia and drags her to the top of an outcrop . At the top , he turns , LOOKS DIRECTLY AT PERSEUS and HOWLS , his message clear : " If you want to save her , come and get her ." He hungrily rips her leather bandeau . Perseus turns to Amoun .
Take the barrier down or I ' ll go through it !
Have you learned nothing ? If you break out now , we ' re all at risk . On the boulder , Kalibos grabs Vidalia ' s white flesh . Perseus is anguished ; he knows he ' s in love .
Get down ! Perseus backs away three steps . To the others --
Get ready to defend yourselves ! Perseus runs , plants a foot on Thad ' s back and leaps out through the swarm , which immediately dissipates around the humans . They have only a moment to react as the stunned Lotophagi come to their senses .
Let ' s kill these freks ! Perseus runs over the backs of the Lotophagi . Hurtling off them , he scrambles up and knocks Kalibos off Vidalia . Ralibos rolls , flips onto his feet and gives Perseus a look : " You ' re the one that I want ." They face off , looking for an opening . Perseus lunges , thrusting his sword . Kalibos dodges , springing up the rocks and then down toward Perseus , acrobatic as an ape . Perseus rolls out of the way . Perseus sweeps his sword at Kalibos ' head . The monster catches the blade in his jaws and SNAPS IT IN TWO ! Bloody spittle flies from his tongue . Kalibos pounces , pins Perseus . He opens his jaw and sinks his teeth into Perseus ' shoulder . Vidalia cracks a rock into Kalibos ' head . The creature whirls on Vidalia and careens toward her , head bloody . Perseus leaps in the air and catches Kalibos in the back with both feet , knocking him over the edge .
Vidalia ... we need to help them ... He blacks out . Vidalia cranes to look over the edge of the cliff where Kalibos fell . She is mystified by what
Where ... Where are we ? The
But I thought the Djinn ...
The Skolothians have suffered more than their share in this war . The Legions of the Gods have battered them .
It ' s no wonder they shy away from all strangers . Perseus looks ahead , where the Expedition is parting company with the Djinn Raiders . only one of the Djinn is staying -- SHAIKH SULEIMAN , a veiled priest .
Because of you . You ' re the reason they saved us .
Me ? I don ' t understand .
Why don ' t you ask him ?
I thought they didn ' t speak .
They have no mouths . That doesn ' t mean they do not speak .
The Pillar of Moirai . Lair of the Norn Sisters .
Tell me of them .
They ' re witches in the form of Strix . Not a pleasant sight , a Strix . They have powerful magic and dreadful habits . Baby - eaters , among other things . But they owe me a favor . When the war broke out , they lent their power to men against the Gods in exchange for infant sacrifice . Tiamat struck them blind for their treachery . When they came for help , I fashioned them an artificial eye , for their Second Sight .
You made only one eye ?

Stay away from my boy ! Without touching him , the Shaikh throws the fisherman over his head , where he lands hard with an " UMPH !" Perseus jolts awake . He reaches for his sword , but has none . Spyros struggles to his feet to start another charge . Suleiman raises his hand and freezes Spyros in his position . The Shaikh ' s veil has fallen , revealing his frightening countenance : scaled skin of charred wood ; eyes like slots in a furnace . Perseus listens to the
Spyros , he means me no harm . The Shaikh lowers his hand : Spyros falls into the dirt . The Shaikh pulls his veil over his face . He kneels before Perseus , head bowed .
I hear you and I understand you . But I don ' t know how .
You are praying to me ? There must be a mistake . The Shaikh proffers the gleaming bronze sickle which has a zig - zag , LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN engraved on the blade , honoring Zeus .
An offering '? I thank you and take it humbly , as agift from a friend , not an offering . He takes the weapon and bows his head , surprising the Shaikh .
You honor my father ? You honor Spyros ?
Likewise , Urd . I seek your counsel .
You know already ... of course .
Surely the beast from the sea has some weakness . You owe me this answer at least .
Tell us what we want to know or your Eye has seen its last .
No , good Sisters ... the son of Zeus . The Strix react in horror and all land on the same monolith .
Since you cannot see , let me tell you what ' s about to happen . I ' m about to throw this evil Eye to the rocks far below . I fear its journey will be a taxing one . The members of the Expedition are impressed ; Vidalia , too : the young demigod shows growing leadership . The Strix are panicked --
You don ' t have to tell us the secret . But you will have to live as blind as she made you .
Tell me first . If I like the answer , you get your Eye .
You know the answer sure as you already knew the question . The Norn Sisters confer , enclosed in a curtain of wings .
Tell us now ! The Strix are torn , frightened . Finally --
They ' re lying , Perseus . Perseus studies the Sisters , weighing his response .
I believe them . Here ' s your second sight . Verdandi launches and catches it in her beak , pops it in her socket .
And Medusa ! Where does she abide ?
How can she be slain ?
Don ' t go in there , Perseus . It ' s a trap .
If ever I should meet him .
Tell the story , sir . My men fear only one thing -- to let fear in their hearts . Mongke says something that means , " Go ahead already ."
Medusa was a tender young woman once -- a mortal creature of such rare beauty as to tempt even the Gods . One night , on the road home , she caught the eye of the God of Deserts and Entropy -- Set the Void .
Charon ' s ferry .
You ' re enjoying this too much .
I wish it , but I can ' t perceive the world that way .
I ' m beginning to hear the wind .
Wait ... She is already climbing the ladder . She stops for only a
What ?
Nothing .
What do you see ?
A look I know well .
From me ?
Never before .
Then where ? Spyros smiles , puts his huge , calloused hand on Perseus ' shoulder .
In my own mirror , son .
When does it go away ?
If we ' re lucky ... never .
The Temple of Tartaros ... Medusa ' s lair . Mongke and Tamburlane exchange words and point . They all
Medusa must have turned them to stone . Perseus swings his sickle , measuring its balance , and adjusts his shield . He checks a canvas sack on his belt .
I ' m going into the Temple .
Are you afraid ?
Of what ?
Good boy .
Yes . You ?
Stay close and I ' ll steer us through . They tie on blindfolds and feel their way into the Temple .
I hear her , Perseus . She ' s near ! Her torso behind him , she RATTLES her tail in front . Draco spins and slices the air . The RATTLE stops . Draco waits , confused .
The relief fleet is lost . Monsters gather outside our walls . Soon I won ' t be able to keep my own people at bay . And still , no word from the Expedition . Kepheus raises a spyglass to survey the view beyond the city walls .
Until the Expedition perhaps returns ?... Until we ' re saved by the fisherman ' s son ?
From your lips , I pray , to his true father ' s ear . Andromeda has appeared . All are shocked to see her . She addresses the others with an authority we ' ve never seen .
They take refuge from the Lower Wharf . A sight I wish you ' d never seen .
Listen to me . By the time this is over , your mother and I may well be gone . But I guarantee the day is coming when Joppa will know glory under Queen Andromeda . She embraces him , head upon his shoulder , where he can ' t see her resolve .
Eleven stadia to the South ... What is ' Polis of Jove Pater '? I ' m ignorant of this .
Jove the Father is another name by which Zeus was known . This milestone dates from when city states were named for their patron deities . Perseus , filling his canteen , peers at the marker as Amoun uses one hand to cover the letters "- VE " and the other the letters "- TER ."
' The Polis of Jove Pater ' is the ancient name of --
-- Joppa .
Yes , Joppa ... once the most sacred site in the worship of Jove .
Tiamat chooses the city of Zeus to take hostage .
. and transforms Joppa into the new church of Tiamat . The ancient abode of Zeus ...
Father , we ' ve seen much on this journey we cannot hold in our hands . Yet these things are real enough . At each turn , we find monsters and Gods .
Yes , the evidence is everywhere once we leave our island . That ' s why I so rarely leave . These Gods , what do you make of them ?
Yes , as bad as men . And would you have that sort guide your life ?
No . Men must be accountable to themselves . Otherwise we serve poor masters .
We must keep moving . Time is running out .
If we don ' t rest the horses , they won ' t make it to Joppa .
We all need rest . If you don ' t save yourself , you ' ll have nothing left when you face the Kraken . than ever ) is suddenly alert . She peers into the woods , agitated . Then she EXCLAIMS SOFTLY , dismounts and runs into the woods .
Vidalia ! Perseus slides from his horse and follows her . Mongke says something to Tamburlane ; they LAUGH . Amoun to
Why don ' t we stop here tonight ? Spyros smiles , looking off after Perseus .
Who were they ?
I was mad with fear . I was no hero . I just didn ' t want to die . Perseus turns toward the altar .
What is this ? A marble tablet sits on the altar , its surface defaced . Vidalia runs her fingers along the scoring .
How long do you have ?
What will happen ?
What about me ?
I don ' t believe that . Will love not buy another day , Vidalia ?
When you vanish , I ' ll find you .
I ' d rather look at you .
Don ' t give away your secrets . You still have need of them .
Where is she ?
It is not yours to permit , Master ... with respect . Vidalia comes down into the shrine , her apron full of berries .
Have you forgotten Perseus is engaged to the Princessa ?
I won ' t marry Andromeda .
If by some miracle you survive this encounter with Leviathan , the hand of the Princessa is your reward .
Are you so selfish ? Would you risk everything for the foolish love of -- A BLAST of HOT DESERT WIND blows into the Shrine . The berries turn brown and shrivel . Amoun grabs his chest . Perseus and Vidalia crumple in agony . SET THE VOID COMES INTO THE SHRINE . Amoun tries to invoke a spell , but Set touches his chest and Amoun splits open . Set points at Vidalia , slamming her into the earthen wall . The God is there in an instant , strangling her . Perseus staggers up and swings his sickle , but Set points , ripping the weapon from Perseus ' hand . It flies across the shrine and sinks with a CLANG into the tablet that once held Vidalia ' s true name . Still choking Vidalia , Set grabs Perseus ' arm . Perseus doubles over , paralyzed by the God ' s touch . Suffocating , Vidalia FADES MORE . Immobilized , Perseus watches her struggle and searches
We must go quickly now . He pulls the sickle from the marble with a BRINNG ! The light flashes off Zeus ' LIGHTNING BOLT PATTERN on the blade .
The combat has just begun .
If it should come to pass , tell your mother and sister I loved them much . Perseus reaches out and touches his foster father warmly .
You ' ll have to tell them yourself . Vidalia ' s voice has become weaker .
I will not fail them . He turns toward the Goddess , but Vidalia is gone .
Vidalia ?
The sacrifice has begun .
I must get to the cliffs !
No shit . They raise their weapons and spur their horses down the slope to war .
Hello .
Are you ready to become a queen ?
Then you ' re ready to go home . Perseus raises one arm . The - AIR reverberates to a LOUD BEATING OF WINGS . Andromeda looks up in wonder . Pegasus appears out of the sun ' s glare , gracefully alighting on the water . Perseus helps Andromeda up and then climbs on behind her . Pegasus takes off . TILT UP WITH them until they are lost from sight .
Perseus views the scene from a nearby hill . Behind him , Pegasus waits patiently , grazing the grass . Until --
Am I to understand you do not intend to make this union with the Queen Andromeda ?
Yes .
Despite my will and intention that you do so ?
Yes .
Would you choose to condemn Men , your own people , to suffer more of this devastating War ?
I have no people . You have stranded me between realms , neither man nor God .
Do you reproach Zeus ?
No . I thank you ... Father . Zeus , mighty God , reacts to the word . His expression softens and he looks on Perseus with growing pride .
You have freed me . I will not be a pawn for Men or Gods .
Does that absolve you suddenly of your responsibilities ?
You ' ve made me understand that my responsibility is to myself . So it is with us all .
You ' ve put me to a great test . In the midst of it , I found the courage in my heart to defy Gods . I do not know how much of that comes from you , Father ... and how much from my Mother , who I never knew . Zeus starts , subtly , at the mention of Queen Danae .
It matters not . Whatever the source , I are only grateful . He looks off toward the funeral pyres and the human throng .
This war will end the moment you choose for it to end ... and Men agree . I think , perhaps , that is the free will that all realms share . Zeus looks at him , proud , yet wistful -- what an offspring , what a creation !
What will you do , Man of free will ? Perseus motions Pegasus forward , and swings up onto his back .
I ' m going to find Vidalia .
So ... my Son , you will be a pawn for love ?
Yes , Father , gladly . Perseus spurs Pegasus and launches into the sky . And soars away .
