But I knew Harvey Dent . I was ... his friend . And it will be a very long time before someone inspires us the way he did . Gordon , choked with emotion , gathers the papers of his eulogy . I believed in Harvey Dent . And we FADE TO BLACK .
Who we are does not matter . What matters is our plan .
It would be extremely painful .
For you .
Of course . Dr . Pavel refused our offer in favor of yours . We had to know what he told you about us .
He would not have told us .
Him , I need healthy . You present no such problem . CIA Man laughs for the Special Forces ' benefit . A heavy bass tone is rising . The Sergeant looks out the window .
Crashing this plane ...
With no survivors . A Special Forces soldier spins around - an Armed Man is outside the window . Bang -
Friend . They expect one of us in the wreckage . The man nods , unhooks himself , takes Bane ' s arm .
The fire rises . Hooded Man 2 hands Bane his line . Bane clips it around Dr . Pavel , takes out a knife and cuts Dr . Pavel ' s seat belt . Dr . Pavel panics , flails . Bane takes his arms . Gentle .
Calm , Doctor . Now is not time for fear ... Bane slides Dr . Pavel out of his seat . They hang in the vertical , windblown cabin . Bane takes out a detonator .
That comes later . Bane presses the detonator - the cabin drops from around them , revealing the terrifying drop to the peaks below . Dr . Pavel screams as they are hoisted up towards the transport , and we -
Congressman .
No one has . Not in years .
Maybe the truth about Harvey isn ' t so simple , Congressman .
The truth ...? INSERT CUT : Harvey Dent , face half destroyed , threatens Gordon ' s son with a handgun .
Maybe right now all you need to know is that there are a thousand inmates in Blackgate Prison as a direct result of the Dent Act . These are violent criminals , essential cogs in the organized crime machine that terrorized Gotham for so long . Maybe , for now , all I should say about Harvey Dent ' s death is this ... it has not been for nothing . The figure on the balcony turns back into the mansion . People clap as Gordon leaves the mike . Gordon approaches Foley .
The second shift reports in ?
On your desk . But you should put in some more time with the Mayor -
That ' s your department .
He goes by his gut , and it continues to bother him , whatever the numbers .
Not really . She took the kids and moved to Cleveland .
Really ? He ' s a hero .
Mr . Till , why are your people using the main stairs ? Alfred places a glass of water on a tray next to a covered plate . Picks up the tray , looks around the chaotic kitchen .
Where ' s Mrs . Bolton ?
The East drawing room . Unlock the door , place the tray on the table , lock the door again . Nothing more .
I ' m sorry , Miss Tate , but I ' ve tried . He won ' t see you .
Mr . Wayne is as determined to ignore important things as trivial ones .
Everyone knows Wayne ' s holed up in there with eight - inch nails , peeing into Mason jars . Good of you to let me on the grounds .
The Dent Act is about all Gotham . Even you , Mr . Daggett . Miss Tate , always a pleasure . Alfred turns and walks off . Daggett smiles , glib .
Why waste your time talking to the man who threw away your investment on some save - the - world vanity project ? He can ' t help you get your money back . But I can .
Is that what they say about me ?
That ' s a beautiful necklace . Reminds me of the one that belonged to my mother . It can ' t be the same one - her pearls are in this safe - He reaches out with his cane to press open a panel on the bureau , revealing a safe door ... - which the manufacturer clearly explained is uncrackable .
I ' m afraid I can ' t let you take those .
Miss Tate was asking to see you again .
She ' s very persistent .
And quite lovely , in case you were wondering .
I wasn ' t .
What are you doing ?
Examining print dust . We ' ve been robbed .
And this is your idea of raising the alarm ?
She took the pearls . Tracking device and all .
She ?
One of the maids , perhaps you should stop letting them in this side of the house .
Perhaps you should learn to make your own bed , then . Why are you dusting for prints ?
I ' m not . She was .
I didn ' t want to bother you up here , but they ' re looking for you .
What ' s the problem , son ?
Congressman Gilly ' s wife ' s been calling . He hasn ' t made it home from the Wayne Foundation event .
That ' s a job for the police ?
Sir , I ' ve been a cop for a year and I ' ve only logged half a dozen arrests . When you and Dent cleaned the streets you cleaned ' em good . Pretty soon we ' ll be chasing overdue library books . Gordon smiles at this . Blake looks at his stack of files .
But here you are . Like we ' re still at war ...
Old habits .
Or instinct .
What ' s your name , son ?
Blake , sir .
You have something you want to ask me , Officer Blake ?
It ' s that night . This night , eight years ago . The night Dent died .
What about it ?
The last confirmed sighting of the Batman . He murders those people , takes out two SWAT teams , breaks Dent ' s neck ... then just vanishes ?
I ' m not hearing a question , son .
Don ' t you want to know who we was ? Gordon turns to look at the broken searchlight . He brushes his fingers across its rusted shell .
I know exactly who he was . ( Turns to Blake .) He was Batman .
Master Wayne ? Alfred ' s voice echoes through the vast mansion . No reply .
You haven ' t been down here in a long time ...
Just trying to find out more about our jewel thief . I ran her prints from the photos she handled - Wayne pulls up a mug shot - a fat , male armed - robbery suspect . - but she was wearing someone else ' s fingerprints . She ' s good .
She may be . But we have the trace on the necklace .
We do , so I cross - referenced the address she went back to with police data on high - end B - and - E ' s ...
She ' s good , but the ground is shrinking beneath her feet .
We should send the police before she fences the pearls .
She won ' t . She likes them too much . And they weren ' t what she was after .
What was she after ?
My fingerprints . There was printer toner mixed with graphite on the safe . Gives you a good pull , and it ' s untraceable .
Fascinating . Maybe you should exchange notes over coffee .
Now you ' re trying to set me up with a jewel thief ?
At this point , sir , I would set you up with a chimpanzee if I thought it would bring you back into the world .
There ' s nothing out there for me .
And that ' s the problem . You hung up the cape and cowl , but never moved on . You won ' t get out there and find a life . Find someone -
I did find someone , Alfred .
I know . And then you lost them . That ' s part of living , sir . But you ' re not living - you ' re waiting . Hoping for things to go bad again .
Name ' s Jimmy . He ' s at St . Swithin ' s . The boys home where I ... I coach some ball .
Jimmy hadn ' t been here for months .
Why ?
You know why , Blake - he aged out . We don ' t have the resources to keep boys on after sixteen -
The Wayne Foundation gives money for that -
Not for two years now .
He has a brother here , right ?
Mark . I ' ll tell him .
I ' d like to , if that ' s okay .
I ' m sorry .
What was he doing in the tunnels ?
Lot of guys been going down the tunnels when they age out . Say you can live down there . Say there ' s work down there .
What kind of work are you gonna find in the sewers ?
More than you can find up here , I guess . Blake considers this . Troubled .
You brought a date ?
Very nice . He pockets the envelope .
Oh , yes .
I count fine . The Second Thug puts a gun to Selina ' s head .
In fact , I ' m counting to ten right now ... Selina looks in his eyes . The Thug cocks his gun . She blinks .
We can ' t have loose ends . And even in that dress , no one ' s going to miss you .
Cute . But they ' re not gonna be looking in a place like this .
It ' s okay , Miss . It ' s okay .
I ' ve got the Congressman - bullet to the leg , but he ' s okay .
Manhole !
You three , down with me . You two , head down to cover the next exit -
Get the DWP down here , now !
They went down there ?
And Gordon took SWAT in after them .
Come on , we gotta get down there -
Gas ? This is a sewer !
No one goes in there till we know what ' s down there .
We know what ' s down there , sir . The Police Commissioner !
Somebody get the hothead out of here . And get me a DWP guy ! Blake backs off . Gets an idea - goes for his patrol car .
This one ' s alive . Jesus . It ' s the Police Commissioner .
What do we do ?
Take him to Bane . The two Thugs drag Gordon down through the maze of tunnels . As they descend deeper they encounter work crews of muscular men wielding large drills and jackhammers , working the walls and ceiling of the larger tunnels . Some of the men are armed Mercenaries , overseeing gangs of homeless street kids . They stare as Gordon is dragged past . The Thugs drag Gordon between two waterfalls , into -
Why are you here ? The Thugs drop Gordon at Bane ' s feet .
Answer him ! Bane slowly turns to the Thugs .
I ' m asking you .
It ' s the Police Commissioner .
And you brought him down here ?
We didn ' t know what to do . We -
You panicked . And your weakness costs three lives .
No , he ' s alone - Bane flips the Thug ' s chin up and to the side with a crack . Thug 1 drops . Bane turns to Thug 2 .
Search him . Then I will kill you . The Thug , terrified , pulls out Gordon ' s badge , wallet , gun ... and the folded papers of the speech he did not read . Bane takes these one by one with quick glances . He stops at the papers . Unfolds them ...
He ' s dead .
Then show me his body .
That water runs to any one of the outflows - we ' d never find him . Bane turns to the Lead Mercenary .
Give me your GPS . Lead Mercenary hands him a GPS - Bane tucks it into Thug 2 ' s jacket , zips it up like a mother sending her kid to school .
Follow him .
Follow him ?
Track him . Make sure both bodies will not be found . Then brick up the south tunnel .
I need to see Bruce Wayne .
I ' m sorry , Mr . Wayne doesn ' t take unscheduled calls . Even from police officers .
And if I go get a warrant , in the investigation of Harvey Dent ' s murder ? Would that still count as unscheduled ?
What can I do for you , officer ?
Commissioner Gordon ' s been shot .
I ' m sorry to hear that -
He chased a gunman down into the sewers . When I pulled him out he was babbling about an underground army . A masked man called ' Bane '.
Shouldn ' t you be telling this to your superior officers ?
I did . One of them asked if he saw any giant alligators down there . He needs you . He needs the Batman .
If Commissioner Gordon thinks I ' m the Batman he must be in a bad way
He doesn ' t know or care who you are . But we ' ve met before . When I was a kid . At the orphanage . See , my mom died when I was small . Car accident , I don ' t really remember it . But a couple of years later my dad was shot over a gambling debt . I remember that just fine . Not a lot of people who know what it feels like , do they ? To be angry . In your bones . People understand , foster parents understand . For a while . Then they expect the angry kid to do what he knows he can never do . To move on . To forget .
So they stopped understanding and sent the angry kid to a boys ' home - St . Swithin ' s . Used to be funded by the Wayne Foundation . See , I figured it out too late . You have to hide the anger . Practice smiling in the mirror . Like putting on a mask . You showed up one day in a cool car , pretty girl on your arm .
We were so excited - Bruce Wayne , billionaire orphan . We made up stories about you . Legends . The other boys ' stories were just that . But when I saw you I knew who you really were ... I ' d seen that look on your face . Same one I taught myself . Blake gets up to leave . Wayne is lost in thought .
I don ' t know why you took the fall for Dent ' s murder , but I ' m still a believer in the Batman . Even if you ' re not .
Why did you say your boys ' home used to be funded by the Wayne Foundation ?
Because the money stopped . Might be time to get some fresh air and start paying attention to the details . Some of those details might need your help .
You checked that name ? ' Bane ' -
Ran it through some databases . He ' s a mercenary . No other known name . Never been seen or photographed without a mask . He and his men were behind a coup in West Africa that secured mining operations for our friend John Daggett .
Now Daggett ' s brought them here ?
It would seem so . I ' ll keep digging .
Why did the Wayne Foundation stop funding boys ' homes in the city ?
The Foundation is funded from the profits of Wayne Enterprises ... There have to be some .
Time to talk to Mr . Fox , I think .
I ' ll get him on the phone -
No . Do we still have any cars around the place ?
One or two .
And I need an appointment at the hospital . About my leg .
Which hospital , sir ?
Whichever one Jim Gordon ' s in .
I ' ll pass along your request . Next time I see him . Miranda catches something in this .
Let ' s just say that Bruce Wayne has his ... eccentricities .
I was not . But it wouldn ' t do him any good - Mr . Wayne still retains a clear majority . Miranda leaves . Fox moves into his office - stops .
Bruce Wayne . As I live and breathe . Wayne rises , pushing hard on his cane .
What brings you out of cryo - sleep Mr . Wayne ?
I see you haven ' t lost your sense of humor ... even if you have lost most of my money .
Actually , you did that yourself . See , if you funnel the entire R and D budget for five years into a fusion project that you then mothball , your company is unlikely to thrive .
Even with -
A wildly sophisticated CEO , yes . Wayne Enterprises is running out of time . And Daggett is moving in .
What ' re my options ?
If you ' re not willing to turn your machine on -
I can ' t , Lucius .
Then sit tight . Your majority keeps Daggett at arm ' s length while we figure out a future for the energy program with Miranda Tate - she ' s supported your project all the way . She ' s smart , and quite lovely .
You too , Lucius ?
We all just want what ' s best for you , Bruce . Show her the machine .
I ' ll think it over .
Anything else ?
No , why ?
These conversations always used to end with some ... unusual requests .
I retired .
Let me show you some stuff , anyway . Fox hits a button - the bookcase opens into a hidden elevator .
I figured you ' d have shut this place down .
It was always shut down , officially .
But all this new stuff ?
After your father died , Wayne Enterprises set up fourteen different defense subsidiaries . I ' ve spent years shuttering them and consolidating all the prototypes under one roof . My roof .
Why ?
Stop them falling into the wrong hands . Besides , I thought someone might get some use out of them ... Wayne shakes his head .
Sure I can ' t tempt you to something ? Pneumatic crampons ? Infrared lenses ? Least let me get you something for that leg .
It ' s fine the use it gets these days .
Well , then I have just the thing for an eccentric billionaire who doesn ' t like to walk ... Fox opens a door - we glimpse a sleek vehicle . Wayne ' s eyes light up .
Now you ' re just showing off .
Defense Department project for tight - geometry urban pacification . Rotors configured for maneuvering between buildings without recirculation .
What ' s it called ?
It has a long and uninteresting Wayne Enterprises designation . So I took to calling it the Bat . And yes , Mr . Wayne , it does come in black . Wayne touches its sleek side . Marveling .
Works great except for the autopilot .
What ' s wrong with that ?
Software - based instability . Take a better mind than mine to fix it .
Better mind ?
I was trying to be modest . A less busy mind . Yours , perhaps . Wayne looks wistfully at the machine . Turns away .
I told you . I retired , Lucius .
That ' s good -
We were in this together . Then you were gone ...
The Batman wasn ' t needed anymore . We won .
Built on a lie . Our lie . Now there ' s evil rising from where we tried to bury it . Nobody will listen ... The Batman has to come back .
What if he doesn ' t exist anymore ?
He must . He must .
I ' m not sure if my assistant put me on the guest list -
Miss Tate , isn ' t it ?
True . Proceeds go to the big fat spread , not the cause . It ' s not about charity , it ' s about feeding the ego of whichever society hag laid it on .
Oh .
That ' s very generous of you .
Sometimes the investment doesn ' t pay off . Sorry .
Mind if I cut in ? Rich Twit turns , annoyed - Wayne hands him his cane . Takes Selina by the waist . She glares at him .
You don ' t seem very happy to see me .
Felt like some fresh air .
I have a powerful friend who deals with this kind of thing . ( Admires her cat ears .) Brazen costume for a cat burglar .
Bruce Wayne , eccentric billionaire . Who ' s your date ?
It ' s pronounced ' Ibeetha '. You wouldn ' t want these folks realizing you ' re a crook not a social climber .
I doubt you care what anyone in this room thinks about you .
Well , Selina Kyle , I know you came here from your walk - up in Old Town - modest place for a master jewel thief . Which means either you ' re saving for your retirement - or you ' re in deep with the wrong people .
Actually , I was born in the Regency Room .
Start fresh .
Or our achievements .
You think that justifies stealing ?
Robin Hood ?
Maybe you ' re assuming too much .
Ouch .
Sounds like you ' re looking forward to it .
These pearls do look better on you then they did in my safe ...
Not likely .
I must have lost my ticket -
My wife ?
Just you , sir ?
Don ' t worry , Master Wayne . Takes a little time to get back into the swing of things . Wayne dials his phone .
Remember those ' unusual requests ' I used to make ?
You ' ve got the wrong leg , sir .
You start with the good limb so it learns your optimum muscle patterns . Wayne swaps the brace to his bad knee . Puts his weight on it - the knee bends , kicks . He sits again . Cautious . Now we tighten it up .
It is terribly painful ?
You ' re welcome to try it , Alfred .
Happy watching , thank you , sir . Wayne shouts as the brace clicks home . He gets to his feet .
Not bad - Wayne executes a perfect roundhouse , knocking out a brick . Not bad at all .
Master Wayne , if you ' re considering going back out there you need to hear some rumors surrounding Bane .
I ' m all ears .
There is a prison . In a more ancient part of the world . A pit . Where men are thrown to suffer and die . But sometimes , a man rises from the darkness . Sometimes ... the pit sends something back .
Bane .
Born and raised in a hell on earth .
Born in a prison ?
No one knows why . Or how he escaped . But they know who trained him one he did ... R ' s al Gh  l . Your
He plucked Bane from a dark corner of the earth and trained him in the blackest disciplines of combat , deception and endurance . Just like you .
Bane was a member of the League of Shadows .
Until he was excommunicated . And a man considered too extreme for R ' s
I didn ' t realize I was known for trifling with criminals .
That was then . And you can strap up your leg and put the mask back on . But it won ' t make you what you were .
Which was ?
Someone whose anger at death made him value all life . Even his own .
If this man is all the things you say he is , then this city needs me . The Batsuit emerges from the cube .
Yes , this city needs Bruce Wayne . Your resources , your knowledge ... not your body . Not your life . That time has passed .
I tried helping as Bruce Wayne , Alfred . And I failed .
You can fail as Bruce Wayne . As Batman , you can ' t afford to .
That ' s what you ' re afraid of - that if I go back out there I ' ll fail .
No . I ' m afraid that you want to . Wayne looks at Alfred . Then turns to examine the Batsuit .
Why else would you people be here ? Bane grabs Trader 1 by the throat and drags him across the floor to an online automated trades terminal ... He puts the man ' s thumb onto the print reader - the screen lights up .
Enter your password . Or I send these men to your home .
Move it , now ! We ' ve got a situation .
That way ! Blake points - but SWAT vehicles pile in , blocking .
Get in your vehicle and stay there ! Foley and the SWAT Commander , Allen , approach the entrance . The Market Security Chief walks up , frantic .
This is a hostage situation -
I ' m not risking my men for your
Really ? Mine ' s in my mattress .
Cut the fiber line - shut down the cell tower . That ' ll slow them down .
For now . How much longer does the program need ?
Time to go mobile . Shoeshine Man picks up the laptop , slips it into his pack ...
Get the barriers up - no more in and out on this street ! Steel wedge - shaped barriers rise up at the mouth of the street . A Sniper watches the doors through a thermal scope . Six large heat signatures bloom , too big for people ...
Back off , back off ! They ' ve got hostages !
Let ' s roll , they ' ve spotted the Batman !
Call everyone in - every car patrol , beat cop , off - duty , too ! Pull ' em in , close every street ! Now ! Foley looks out at Gotham rushing by .
I ' m gonna do what Gordon never could .
What ' s that ?
I ' m gonna take down the Batman .
Sir , what about the armed robbers ?
Negative ! Stay on the Batman !
But he ' s getting away !
Who do you want to catch ? Some robber , or the son - of - a - bitch who killed Harvey Dent ?
WHAT WERE YOU STEALING ?! Shoeshine Man stares . Unafraid . Batman rips the computer from his pack . The screen reads :
After eight years he has to pick tonight ...
He ' s drawing the cops off Bane ... Daggett watches , intrigued .
How did you let him go ?!
And you don ' t ?! We ' re not letting one nut with a bad attitude and some fancy gadgets run this town down , you hear me ?!
Then he ' s as dumb as he dresses - close it down , gentlemen !
Like a rat in a trap , gentlemen ... Foley reaches for a loudhailer . VARRROOOOM !! A noise from the alley that none of the cops have heard before ...
Are you sure that was him ? Foley looks at Blake . Thrusts the loudhailer at him .
Bane says the Batman interfered , but the task was accomplished .
What about the men they arrested ?
He says , and I quote , they would die before talking .
Where does he find these guys ? Daggett gets to his feet , relieved , moves to his inner office . Open the champagne ...
And can we get some girls in here ?
You dumb bitch .
Dumb to show up here tonight .
' I want ' never gets ...
Nice outfit ... those heels make it tough to walk ?
Where ' s what ?
Oh , yeah - the ultimate tool for a master thief with a record . I don ' t have it . The Bodyguard bursts in , gun drawn . Catwoman , holding Daggett , spins , kicking the window with the point of her heel . The glass shatters . She pulls Daggett through the window . He screams - they drop ...
The ' Clean Slate '? Type in a name and date of birth and within a couple hours that person ceases to exist in any database ? Little too good to be true .
That ' s why I bought them . But they had nothing . It was a gangland myth .
They just don ' t care .
No guns . No killing .
Come on ! Catwoman follows , confused , as Batman leaps off the roof . She gets to the edge , pauses to look down into the alley - sees the black angular roof of the Bat , cockpit open . Shots impact around her - she leaps , landing hard , but gracefully on the back of the vehicle , slides into the cockpit . As the engines thunder into life , and the canopy hisses shut , taking bullets from above .
This isn ' t a car . Catwoman flinches as the Bat thunders into the sky , downdraft forcing the Mercenaries down onto the roof , all but one , who walks slowly across the roof , strong against the wind ... Bane . He watches the Bat roar off into the night .
You ' re welcome .
Those weren ' t street thugs - they were trained killers . I saved your life . In return I need to know what you did with Bruce Wayne ' s fingerprints . Catwoman looks at him . Considering .
I doubt many people get the better of you .
What were they going to do with them ?
Miss Kyle -? But she is gone . So that ' s what that feels like .
Very inconspicuous . Shall I tell the neighbors you got yourself a new leaf - blower ?
We bought all the neighbors . Alfred takes the cowl from him , then the cape , as they walk .
From the look of the television coverage , you seem to have your taste for wanton destruction back .
I retrieved this .
Shouldn ' t the police be gathering the evidence ?
They don ' t have the tools to analyze it .
They would if you gave them to them
One man ' s tool is another man ' s weapon .
In your mind , perhaps . But there aren ' t many things you couldn ' t turn into a weapon .
Alfred . Enough . The police weren ' t getting it done -
Perhaps they would ' ve if you haven ' t made a sideshow of yourself .
Perhaps you ' re upset you were wrong .
Wrong ?
You thought I didn ' t have it in me . Alfred looks at him . Puts down the cape and cowl .
You don ' t . You lead a bloated police force on a merry chase with some fancy new toys from Fox . What about when you come up against him . What then ?
I ' ll fight harder , I always have .
When you had something to fight for . What are you fighting for now ? Not your life . Wayne moves to switch off the monitor . Alfred grabs his hand .
Take a good look . At his speed , his ferocity , His training . I see the power of belief . Of the fanatic . I see the League of Shadows resurgent .
You said he was excommunicated .
By R ' s al Gh  l . Who leads them
R ' s al Gh  l was the League of
Trades of some kind . Coded ... The screen blanks , a thumb print appears .
Is that -?
Mine . Courtesy of Selina Kyle .
I ' ll get this to Fox . But no more . Wayne hears his tone of voice . Turns to him .
I ' ve sewn you up and set your bones ... but I won ' t bury you . I ' ve buried enough members of the Wayne family .
You ' d abandon me ?
You see only one end to your story . Leaving is all I have to make you understand : you aren ' t Batman anymore - you have to find another way . You used to talk about finishing . About life beyond that awful cave -
Rachel died knowing we ' d decided to be together . That was my life beyond this cave and I can ' t just move on . She didn ' t . She couldn ' t .
What if he had ? What if she wasn ' t intending to make a life with you ?
She was , I can ' t change that -
What if , before she died , she ' d written a letter ? Explaining that she ' d chosen Harvey Dent over you ? Wayne watches , confused , as the old man prepares to say -
And what if , to spare you pain ... I ' d burned that letter ? Wayne stares at Alfred , shocked .
Why would you say such a thing ?
Because I have to make you understand .
You ' re lying .
Because you are as precious to me as you were to your own mother and father and I swore to them that I would protect you and I haven ' t .
You ' re lying !
I ' ve never lied to you . Except when I burned Rachel ' s letter . Wayne turns on the old man , furious .
How dare you use Rachel to stop me !
I ' m using the truth , Master Wayne . Maybe it ' s time we all stopped trying to outsmart the truth and just let it have its day . I ' m sorry .
Sorry ?! You expect to destroy my world , then shake hands ?!
No . I know what this means -
What does it mean , Alfred ?!
It means your hatred . It means losing the person I ' ve cared for ever since I heard his first cries echo through this house . But it might also mean saving your life . And that is more important .
Goodbye , Alfred .
Goodbye , Bruce . Wayne mounts the stairs ... Alfred watches him go . Turns .
Alfred ? But Alfred is gone .
Answering your own door ?
Yes . Could you decode the trades on that drive ?
I didn ' t need to . Page three . Wayne turns the page :
It seems you made a series of large put options on the futures exchange . Verified by thumb print . The options expired at midnight last night . Wayne looks up from the newspaper , reeling .
Long term we may be able to prove fraud , but for now ... you ' re completely broke . And Wayne Enterprises is about to fall into the hands of John Daggett .
The weapons - we can ' t let Daggett get his hands on Applied Sciences -
Applied Sciences is shut up tight , and off the books . The energy project is a different story .
Miranda Tate . We need to convince the board to get behind her . Let ' s show her the reactor -
We ' re meeting her there in thirty - five minutes . You better get dressed .
Bear with me , Miss Tate . They arrive at a Portakabin and enter .
Keep your hands and feet inside the car at all times . He hits a button and the floor descends , Miranda is shocked as the office becomes an elevator into -
The reactor is beneath the river so that it could be instantly flooded in an event of a security breach .
I ' m gonna plead the fifth on that one . Miranda marvels as they step off the elevator . She spots a figure deep within : Bruce Wayne .
I thought you might like to see what your investment built .
If it worked . It doesn ' t . Wayne leads Miranda to the core . Two perpendicular rings of electromagnets suspend a bowling - ball - sized mass of metal . Wayne hits buttons - the ball glows , then dies to cold .
Ignition , yes . But no chain reaction .
Miranda , if it were operational , the danger to Gotham would be too great .
Someone else will work out what Dr . Pavel did . Someone else will figure out how to turn this power source into a nuclear weapon . I need you to take control of Wayne Enterprises and this reactor .
Nothing . Until we can find a way to guarantee its safety .
Decommission it . Flood it .
If the world ' s not ready . Yes .
I ' m trusting you .
I could ' ve flooded this chamber any time in the last three years . I ' m choosing to trust you , Miranda , and that ' s not the easiest thing for me . Please . His eyes are genuine . Pleading . Miranda nods .
We have a board meeting to get to .
I ' d like to point out that we have a non - board member here . Highly irregular , even if it is his family name above the door ... All eyes go to Wayne . An older member of the board pipes up .
Into the ground , sir . Anybody disagree ? Check the value of your shares this morning . Gambling on crazy futures didn ' t just lose Mr . Wayne his seat , it ' s lost us all a lot of money . He needs to leave .
I ' m afraid he has a point , Mr . Wayne .
I understand . Ladies and gentlemen .
Let ' s get down to business .
Right away .
How the hell did Miranda Tate get the inside track on the Wayne board ?! Was she meeting with Wayne ? Was she sleeping with Wayne ?
Not that we know of -
Clearly you don ' t ' know of ' anything , do you ?! Where ' s Bane ?!
We told him it was urgent -
Then where is the masked -
... and he shall appear .
What the hell ' s going on ?
The plan is proceeding as expected .
You see me running Wayne Enterprises ?! Your stock exchange hit didn ' t work , friend . And now you ' ve got my construction crews working all hours around the city ? How ' s that supposed to help my company absorb Wayne ' s ?
Leave us .
You stay right there ! I ' m in charge ! Bane places a gentle hand on Daggett ' s shoulder .
Do you feel in charge ? Daggett is taken aback . Stryver leaves .
I ' ve paid you a small fortune -
And that gives you power over me ?
What is this ?
Your money and infrastructure have been important . Till now .
What are you ?
Gotham ' s reckoning . Come to end the borrowed time you ' ve all been living on ...
You are true evil ...
I am necessary evil . Stryver , on the steps outside the living room , flinches .
When you began ... why the mask ?
To protect the people closest to me .
You ' re a loner with no family .
There are always people you care about . You just don ' t realize how much until they ' re gone . ( Collects himself .) The idea was to be a symbol . Batman could be anybody , that was the point .
It was damn good to see him back .
Not everybody agrees .
They ' ll figure it out in the end .
Got anything on Bane ' s whereabouts ?
Yeah , I ' ve got five hundred pages of tunnel records and a flashlight . I could use some help .
You know what ? Drop me in Old Town ...
Don ' t wait . I ' ll get a cab .
You got money ?
Actually , no . Blake hands him some bills , watches him cross the street . The radio squawks . Blake reacts - drives off .
Actually , they ' re letting me keep the house .
Vacation ?
My powerful friend hopes to change your mind about leaving .
By giving you what you want .
He says it does . He wants to meet . Tonight .
He needs to find Bane . He thinks you ' d know how .
No , you ' re not .
Can we help you , officer ?
John Daggett ' s body was found in a dumpster an hour ago . I thought you might like to know .
Why ?
Because Daggett ' s name is all over the permits I pulled to map the tunnels under Gotham . Blake hands Gordon a stack of files . Foley glares at Blake .
MTA maintenance , sewer construction ...
Where did you get to with the tunnel searches ?
Remind me to tell the detail to keep hotheads out . We ' ve had teams down there , but it ' s a huge network -
Get more men , work a grid . I want him found .
Yeah , yeah - the masked man . We ' re on it .
This is good work . Lose the uniform - you ' re working for me now . We could use some hotter heads around here .
This could just be a coincidence .
You ' re a detective now , son , you ' re not allowed to believe in coincidence anymore . Blake tries to conceal his excitement from Foley .
No . I ' m on my own now .
Never needed them ... She takes his hand .
Hope you don ' t like me for your money . Miranda kicks off her shoes . Glances at the paper .
He left . Taking everything . Miranda puts the photo down . Kisses him . Passionately . Then again . He kisses back . Suddenly the lights go out .
I think my power ' s been shut off .
You ' re pretty good at that .
I assumed your family was wealthy .
I ' ve made a few myself . She turns to him , tracing the scars across his chest .
Someday perhaps . Not tonight . She pulls him close . He kisses her . They fold into each other , the warm heart at the center of a vast , cold room .
That depends .
On what you want it for . I acquired it to keep it out of the wrong hands .
Start by taking me to Bane .
Neither am I . Catwoman swings into a -
You ' ve made a serious mistake .
Bane .
Let ' s not stand on ceremony here , Mr . Wayne .
Peace has cost you strength . Victory has defeated you .
Theatricality and deception are powerful agents ... to the uninitiated . Batman lashes out at Bane - Bane counters - they separate .
But we are initiated , aren ' t we , Bruce ? The League of Shadows . And you betrayed us ...
Us ? You were excommunicated . From a gang of psychopaths .
Now I am the League of Shadows , here to fulfill R ' s al Gh  l ' s
You fight like a younger man . Nothing held back . No reserves . Admirable . But mistaken . Batman hits a switch on his belt - the lights go out - Bane turns slowly addressing all the shadows at once .
You think darkness is your ally . But you merely adopted the dark . I was born in it . Formed by it ...
I didn ' t see the light until I was already a man . And by then it was nothing to me but blinding ...
The shadows betray you , because they belong to me ...
I will show you where I ' ve made my home while preparing to bring justice . Then ... I will break you .
No ...
Your precious armory . Gratefully accepted . We will need it .
I wondered which would break first - your spirit ...
Get Commissioner Gordon . Tell him I ' ve got a line on the Congressman ' s kidnapping .
I showed your picture to the Congressman and guess what ?
Head over heels . Pressing charges , though . Blake lays a police file down with a thump . You ' ve made some mistakes , Ms . Kyle .
You have an appetite . Why run ? You can ' t hide from us with this record .
Who then ? Bane ? What do you know about him ?
We can offer you protection ... Selina looks at him with contempt . Blake shrugs , switches off the tape , moves to the door .
When I spotted you , I was looking for a friend ... Bruce Wayne . Selina turns to look at Blake . His eyes plead with her .
Did they kill him ?
Why didn ' t you just kill me ?
You don ' t fear death . You welcome it . Your punishment is to be more severe .
You ' re a torturer ...
Yes . But not of your body . Of your soul . Wayne exhales . Eyes losing focus from sheer pain .
Where am I ?
Home .
I don ' t see the need for a board meeting on the energy project -
This meeting is called to order . Fox and Miranda freeze . Staring at the mask .
Chair and President . I also need one ordinary member - Mr . Fox , would you care to nominate ?
Where are you taking us ?
Where you buried your resources . The bowels of Gotham .
So you think our friend is gone again ?
This time ... he might not be coming back . Gordon takes this in ... Foley bursts in , agitated .
Okay , Commissioner , you were right .
What ' s happened ?
Your masked man kidnapped the Wayne Enterprises board . He let most of them go , but took three down into the sewers .
No more patrols , no more hide and seek . Send every available cop down there to smoke him out .
The Mayor won ' t want panic -
So it ' s a training exercise .
I ' m sorry for not taking you
Don ' t apologize for believing the world ' s in better shape then it is ... just fight to make it true .
Not you . You ' re telling me the Batman ' s gone . So you chase up the Daggett leads , any way you can .
Do it for the pleasure .
Has anyone made it ?
What does he say ?
Bane .
Don ' t .
Turn it on .
I only need one other board member . There are eight more waiting upstairs .
I won ' t do it . Fredericks trembles . Bane cocks the weapon .
Do your work . Bane turns to his men . Gestures at the hostages . Take them to the surface . People of their status deserve to see the next era of western civilization . Fox , Miranda and Fredericks are led back into the rubble .
I ' ve been to half Daggett ' s cement plants , logged locations they ' ve poured for underground construction ...
Honestly , Commissioner , I don ' t know anything about civil engineering .
But you know about patterns . Keep looking . Blake pulls up in front of a cement plant .
Pull the core out of the reactor .
Five , by my calculations .
For the sake of your family , Dr . Pavel , I hope so .
Hey . The Driver turns .
That was you outside the stock exchange , right ?
When ? When half the city ' s cops were trying to pull onto Castle Street and your truck shut them out .
Detective , now .
And as a detective ... I ' m not allowed to believe in coincidences
What were you doing ?! What ?!
Commissioner , I ' m at the Fourteenth Street plant with two dead witnesses and a lot of questions . Call me -
Oh , God .
Patch me into Foley !
They ' re heading into a trap !
Foley .
It ' s a trap ! Pull everyone out ! Bane ' s been pouring concrete laced with explosives -
Where ?
There ' s a ring around the tunnels - they ' re gonna blow it and trap the cops underground ! Foley looks up with dread at the mouth of the tunnel .
Pull out ! Pull ' em out !
Let the games begin . The Mercenaries hit the detonators .
Gotham , take control of your city ...
Foley ?
Jesus , Blake ! Every cop in the city ' s down in those tunnels !
Not every cop ...
Get my coat , son .
This is the instrument of your liberation ...
Identify yourself to the world .
Tell the world what this is .
And who can disarm this device ?
Thank you , Doctor . Bane snaps Dr . Pavel ' s neck in front of the world .
The bomb is armed , the bomb is mobile , the identity of the triggerman is a mystery . One of you holds the detonator - we come not as conquerors , but as liberators to return control of this city to the people . At the first sign of interference from the outside world or of people attempting to flee , this anonymous Gothamite , this unsung hero , will trigger the bomb . For now , martial law is in effect . Return to your homes , hold your families close , and wait . Tomorrow you claim what is rightfully yours . Bane turns , leaves the field , followed by his men .
What does that mean ?
It means we ' re on our own . I have to get in front of a camera -
Sir , they ' ll kill you the second you show your face -
The Mayor ' s dead . I ' m the symbol of law and order . Bane says he ' s giving Gotham back to the people - they need to know that I could lead .
Bane ' s not gonna let that happen -
Then he ' ll show his true colors .
And you ' ll be dead .
Behind you stands a symbol of oppression . Blackgate Prison ...
Harvey Dent . Held up to you , and over you , as a shining example of justice and good ...
We ' re gonna keep moving you , till we can get you in front of a camera
But they supplied you a false idol . A straw man . To placate . To stop you tearing down this corrupt city ...
Let me tell you the truth about Harvey Dent . In the words of Gotham ' s Police Commissioner , James Gordon ...
' The truth about Harvey Dent is simple in only one regard - it has been hidden for too long . After his devastating injuries , Harvey ' s mind has recovered no better than his mutilated face . He was a broken , dangerous man , not the crusader for justice that I , James Gordon , have portrayed him to be for the last eight years . Harvey ' s rage was indiscriminate . Psychopathic . He held my family at gunpoint , then fell to his death in the struggle over my son ' s life . The Batman did not murder Harvey Dent - he saved
' The things we did in Harvey ' s name brought desperately needed security to our streets ... But I can no longer live with my lie . It is time to trust the people of Gotham with the truth , and it is time for me to resign .'
Do you accept the resignation of all the liars ?! All the corrupt ?! More and more of the crowd is chanting ' Yes !'
These men , locked up in Blackgate for eight years , denied parole under the Dent Act . Based on a lie .
A lie to keep a city from burning to the ground . Gotham needed a hero , someone to believe in -
Not as much as it does now . But you betrayed everything you stood for .
There ' s a point . Far out there . When the structures fail you . When the rules aren ' t weapons anymore , they ' re shackles , letting the bad get ahead . Maybe one day you ' ll have such a moment of crisis . And in that moment , I hope you have a friend like I did . To plunge their hands into the filth so you can keep yours clean .
Your hands look pretty filthy to me , Commissioner .
We take Gotham from the corrupt . The rich . The oppressors of generations who ' ve kept you down with the myth of opportunity . And we give it to you , the people . Gotham is yours - none shall interfere . Do as you please ...
How would he know ?
How ?
Is Bane the child you spoke of ? Was he born here ?
How -?
I watched you die .
You were the mercenary . Bane is your child . Your heir . INSERT CUT : the Mercenary at the side of the road . R ' s .
No ...
NO !
For the bus in case there ' s a chance to evacuate . Keep it in here - people are siphoning parked cars .
Really ?
How do you think I got it ?
Right . Any news ? Is the
Less you know , Father . How ' re the boys ?
Power ' s been on more , so they get some TV .
I ' m not meant to die in here . The Prisoner indicates the TV :
You told me a child did it ...
You have ID ?
How can we trust you ?
Captain , glad to have you here .
Dozens . I ' d rather not say exactly . But the men trapped underground number almost three thousand .
They ' ve been getting water , food .
Yes , sir - take out the mercenaries guarding the outflow south of Ackerman Park , blow the rubble , you ' ve got a hole big enough for ten at a time . I ' m in contact with my partner - they ' re waiting for the day .
Men with automatic weapons who haven ' t seen daylight in three months .
No leads . It ' s a bluff - Bane wouldn ' t give control of that bomb to someone else .
While Gotham lives under a warlord , like in some failed state ?
Aren ' t you gonna tell him ?!
Captain , things are more complicated than you think . There ' s somebody you need to meet . Blake ? Blake nods , leads Jones and his men up the stairs .
I was up here looking for a vantage point . Found the people who run the corporation who owns it living here .
Captain , meet Mr . Fox . Mr . Fox , I ' d like you to brief the Captain . Captain Jones indicates Miranda .
Miss Tate is fully aware of the situation .
It was built as a fusion reactor . The first of its kind . Bane turned the core into a bomb , then disconnected it from the reactor .
And here ' s the important part .
As the device ' s fuel cells decay , it ' s becoming increasingly unstable ... until the point of detonation .
The bomb ' s a time bomb .
And it will go off . In twenty - three days . Captain Jones reels at this news .
Bane ' s revolution is a sham . He ' s watching Gotham rearrange its deckchairs while the whole ship ' s going down . Your appeasement plan might not be as practical as you thought . Captain Jones throws Blake a look . Addresses Fox .
I don ' t know , But I could reconnect it to the reactor . Stabilize it .
Fox , somebody sold us out ! Fox and Miranda burst into the corridor .
Take Miranda - Blake grabs Miranda , heads for the back stairs . Mercenaries jump out of the elevator , firing high .
I ' m on your schedule , Captain .
Give them over for judgement . Hang them where the world will see .
My body makes the jump .
My soul ' s as ready to escape as my body .
I ' m not afraid . I ' m angry .
Why ?
I do fear death . I fear dying in here while my city burns with no one there to save it .
How ?
I want to see Bane ! There ' s been a mistake ! Take me to Bane ! Fox watches him dragged upstairs ...
There ' s been a mistake ! Where ' s Bane ?!
Call Bane ! I ' m one of you ! Jeers . Pull back to reveal a silent figure , watching . Bane .
Exile .
Has anyone made it ? The Blackgate Inmate turns away . Stryver is forced onto the ice . He shuffles forward , listening to the creaking ... Stryver is a hundred yards out when the river swallows him .
Where the hell are they ? It ' s not like we have a lot of time , here .
The bomb goes off tomorrow . We ' ve got about eighteen hours to do something .
We mark that truck . Get a GPS on it , then we can start thinking about how to take it down . The door opens and Blake enters , followed by ten cops . Gordon is counting them in . He moves to Blake .
That ' s it ? Blake just looks at him . Gordon checks the faces . Realizes .
Foley . Where ' s Foley , dammit ?! Gordon heads for the door .
You shouldn ' t be out on the streets
You ' re sending your wife to the door when the city ' s under occupation ?! Foley appears at the end of the corridor . Ashamed .
Wait in the kitchen , honey .
What did you do , bury your uniform in the backyard ?
Jim , you saw what they did to those Special Forces .
You forgotten all the years we went out on patrol with every gangbanger wanting to plant one as soon as our backs were turned ?
This is different and you know it . These guys run the city - the government ' s done a deal with them
Deal ?! Bane ' s got their balls in a vice . That ' s not a deal -
You move against Bane , the triggerman ' s gonna hit the button -
You think he ' s given control of that bomb to one of ' the people '?! You think this is part of some revolution ? There ' s one man with his finger on the button - Bane .
We have to keep our heads down until they can fix this . If you still had family here maybe you ' d -
This only gets fixed from inside the city , Foley . Look , I ' m not asking you to walk down Grand in your dress blues . But we ' ve got to do something before this maniac blows us all to hell .
I ' m sorry Jim . I gotta -
Keep your head down ? What ' s that gonna do tomorrow , when that thing blows ?
You don ' t know that ' s going to happen . Foley closes the door on Gordon . Gordon stands there .
Miss Tate , I can ' t ask you -
Bruce Wayne built it .
Let ' s go .
Not yet .
It wouldn ' t suit you . I need your help .
For this . The ' Clean Slate '.
I admit I felt a little let down . But I still think there ' s more to you . In fact , I think for you - this isn ' t a tool , it ' s an escape route . You want to disappear . Start fresh .
I can give you a way off . Once you ' ve gotten me to Lucius Fox . I need you to find out where they ' re holding him . Then take me in .
To save this city .
Maybe you do . But tomorrow that bomb ' s going off .
I ' m trying . But I need Fox .
Stay further up the block . ( Points at Men .) They ' re gonna cross the street and try and slow the truck down . As it approaches , hit this button . If the needle hits two hundred - give me the signal and I mark the truck . Okay ?
Heads up .
Got it .
On whose authority ?
You picked a hell of a time to go on vacation , Mr . Wayne .
How long until the core ignites ?
That bomb goes off in twelve hours .
Unless we can connect it to the reactor .
If you can get it there . I ' ll find a way to plug it back in . Can you get Miranda out ?
Not tonight . I ' m sorry .
Tonight I need you .
What for ?
To get me back in the game . Catwoman comes down the stairs with the Thugs .
I won ' t forget about you .
I like your girlfriend , Mr . Wayne .
Any move I make against Bane or the bomb - the triggerman sets it off .
They can ' t be using radio or cell - too much interference . Infrared doesn ' t have the range . It could only be micro - burst long wave ... Wayne opens a panel in the wall , takes out equipment : mini - mines , Batarangs , utility belt ...
Could you block it ?
Yes . I need the EMP cannon - guidance mount from the Bat . You remember where you parked ? Wayne nods . Smiles . The Batsuit rises from the floor ...
No lawyer , no witnesses . What sort of due process is this ?
Crane , if you think we are going willingly out onto that ice , you ' ve got another think coming .
Looks that way .
Bring her to me .
She fly pretty well ?
Even without the autopilot ...
Autopilot ? That ' s what you ' re there for .
Impossible ...
This blocks the remote detonator signal to the bomb . Get it onto the truck by sunrise . They might hit the button when it starts .
When what starts ?
War .
You missed a spot . Batman boots him in the head as he moves towards Blake .
If you ' re working alone , wear a mask .
No one cares who I am .
The mask is not for you . It ' s to protect the people you care about .
Huh . And you always seem to know where those people are . How is that ?
I lost someone once . Since then I break into their homes when they ' re sleeping and implant a tracking device on the back of their neck .
On three - one , two , three - They throw the mini - mines at the rubble of the entrance - the blasts barely move any rubble .
No offense , but you got anything bigger in that belt ?
That ' s to warn the men on the other side . Batman disappears into the shadows .
But how do we -? KAABOOOM ! The Bat ' s cannons light up the night .
Okay .
What now ?
All - out assault on Bane ... but you need to get the people you care about across the bridge .
Why ?
In case we fail . Lead an exodus across the bridge . Save as many lives as you can .
Don ' t you need me here ?
You ' ve given me an army . Now go . Blake nods . Turns to leave . Stops .
Thank you .
Don ' t thank me yet .
I might not get a chance later .
The mid - town tunnel ' s blocked by debris , but the cannons give you enough firepower to make a path for people .
To start it , you -
We ' ve got forty - five minutes to save this city -
With your help I might .
There ' s more to you than that . She stares back at him . Facade slipping a touch .
Not everything . Not yet .
There ' s only one police in this city . He steps forward . The line follows .
Open fire .
Come on , come on ...
You came back . To die with your city .
No . I came back to stop you .
That ' s impossible ... Come on ! Cut over to Fifth !
Knock on doors , spread the word - the bomb ' s going to blow ! Get out by the South Street tunnel , or over the bridge ! Do two blocks , then get back to the bus ! The boys race down the street . Father Reilly climbs into the bus .
Stay back . He is mine - Bane SMASHES Batman ' s head - moves in for the kill , but Batman SMASHES Bane to the ground , RIPS sideways across the tubes of Bane ' s mask with the blades of his forearm . Bane bellows , thrashing in AGONY . Batman holds him down with a hand on his throat - searches him with his free hand .
Give me the trigger ! You ' d never give it to an ordinary citizen - Bane ' s thrashing calms as he stares at Batman through pain - soaked eyes ... gasping through his broken mask for relief .
I broke you . How have you come back ?
You thought you were the only one who could learn the strength to escape ? Bane looks at Batman , curiosity behind his pain .
I never escaped - R ' s al Gh  l
The child of R ' s al Gh  l made the
Goodbye . Then is overrun .
He was trying to kill millions of innocent people -
Your knife may have been too slow ... A Mercenary steps forward -
You ' ll have to imagine the fire -
Blake , MCU - I ' m getting these boys to safety -
It ' s gonna blow anyway . We need this bridge open right now .
Whose orders ? Bane ' s ?
Haven ' t you heard the shooting ? The Batman ' s battling it out with Bane
It ' s Detective -
Wait for me back at the bus . The Boys walk back down the bridge ...
I need you on the ground , me in the air , we have to force that convoy east , to the entrance to the
Your orders are out of date ! The situation ' s changed ! Listen , I ' m a cop like you . And I ' m walking out there . Please don ' t shoot me . Blake walks . Shots ring out at his feet . He keeps walking ...
You idiots ! You sons of bitches ! You ' re killing us !!
Father ! Get the boys on the bus -
But there ' s nowhere to go , son .
Give me a hand ! The Bat lands at the tunnel mouth . Gordon moves in to try and grab the core but it is too hot . Let ' s get a cable on it and drag it out ! Come on , we ' re almost there - Laughter . Gordon turns . Talia , lying half out the truck . Dying .
What ' re you doing ?
Two minutes . I can fly it out over the bay ...
No autopilot . She takes this in . He stands to face her .
So did you .
So this is the part where you vanish , only this time you don ' t come back ?
Come on ! On the bus !
What ' re you doing ?
Protection from the blast -
It ' s an atom bomb -!
You think they need to hear that in their last seconds ? You think I ' m going to let them die without hope ?
I never cared who you were -
And you were right .
But shouldn ' t the people know the hero who saved them ?
A hero can be anyone . That was always the point .
Bruce Wayne ? - but is dusted by downdraft as the Bat RISES . Gordon LEAPS out of the way as the core is dragged along and out of the tunnel mouth .
Heads down ! Heads down , now !
Blake , they need to make their peace . Blake turns to him , furious .
They ' re children ! They have no peace to make - An EXPLOSION from downtown Gotham . Blake looks across , startled , turns to the children on the bus . Get down ! This is it ! The smallest of the boys stares through the window past Blake .
' I see that I hold a sanctuary in their hearts , and in the hearts of their descendants , generations hence . It is a far , far better thing that I do , than I have ever done ...' Gordon closes the book , looking down at Bruce Wayne ' s grave . ' It is a far , far better rest that I go to than I have ever known .'
I ' m so sorry . I failed you . You trusted me , and I failed you . And the old man ' s shoulders begin to shake with sobs .
Can I change your mind about quitting the force ?
No . What you said about structures . About shackles . I can ' t take it . The injustice . ( Gestures at gardens .) I mean ... no one ' s ever going to know who saved an entire city .
They know . It was Batman .
Blake , John .
Try my legal name .
Please , I just need to know what I could ' ve done to fix it .
Check the user ident on the patch ...
Si , Fernet Branca , per cortesia .
