- folks , we ' re a little over two and a half hours from touchdown in Atlanta , but if you look out your windows on either side of the aircraft , we ' ll soon be crossing the southern section of the Rocky Mountains , a range which includes more than 50 peaks rising above 14 , 000 feet . The chain ' s loftiest point , Mount Elbert , at 14 , 433 feet should be coming into view as we pass over central Colorado shortly ..
You keep staring at that watch as if your life depended on it , Doctor ..
They ' re ready and waiting . You ' ll soon be with old friends .
Sorry it couldn ' t be under happier circumstances .
He was quite a man . Did he know before the end you two had succeeded ?
.. not in time to save him .
You carry them together ? Safely ?
You Captain again . We ' ve experienced a slight but abrupt drop in cabin pressure .. A passenger struggling with his mask . As Nekhorvich fumbles with the strap on his mask he notes that the display screen shows their altitude is below 30 , 000 feet and dropping . He checks the countdown time on his watch again . Nekhorvich looks around him . The flight attendants are conspicuously absent and all the passengers who have on oxygen masks are passed out .
Pan , pan , pan , Denver Center . This is Trans Pac Flight two - two - zero - seven , 747 heavy . We are not reading you . We ' re unable to maintain cabin pressurization . We have initiated a descent to one six thousand .
.. it seems we have a problem , Dmitri .
You keep calling me Dmitri . You really shouldn ' t .
You ' re not Dmitri ?
- no .
- pull the NO2 tank and dump it , it ' s potential evidence ..
All done , chief ..
- right - - don ' t go too far ahead of me now -
Not possible ..
Checkpoint Charlie plus 30 , altitude minus two - zero - thousand . Airspeed one - seven - niner knots ..
It ' s that time . Go .
You ' re welcome .
If I let you know where I ' m going -
Do you know me ?
No . You just looked as if you did .
Oh . Well . I think that can be arranged .
There ' s not enough time in the world for any of it to be bad .
What if I pay the rent ?
Uh - huh ?
Decisions , decisions .
Think you ' re the only one who can pick a lock ?
Oh , either way works for me .
You ' re never gonna find it there .
His ex - wife ' s Bulgari necklace that goes up for auction Tuesday .
Far right .
offering it up like a mechanic under the chassis ) - torque wrench .
Hey , you put me here . I just do what I ' m told .
I wouldn ' t do that .
That .
Well , Senor de l ' Arena the goods news is that the heat sensors were activated . But Miss Nordoff - Hall , my associate -
- did feel that she had rather too long to work on the safe before they triggered the alarm , isn ' t that right Miss Hall ?
Under the circumstances I think we would recommend re - setting the senors to respond to a lighter load . How do you feel about forty kilos , Miss Hall ?
Well , Senor de l ' Arena , there ' s no reason to disrupt your party any longer . we have some further concerns about the disposition of your security guards , which you ' ll receive in our written report by fax in the morning , hard copy to follow . Shall we ?
At least you walked .
Wanted to see how good you were . I ' m hoping we might work together .
Working under adverse conditions . Highly adverse conditions .
You didn ' t do that badly .
Not really . I triggered the alarm ..
Hey , the Bulgari job last week was flawless . And I ' ve always been partial to pale yellows .
Hi . Would you mind slowing down ?
Pull over and listen to me , will you ? Just listen ..
I need your help and I thin you can use mine .
Scotland Yard , Interpol , every Dutch authority . I can make them go away .
I deserved that .
Slow down , slow down .
No !
Don ' t look down . Just .. look at me . That ' s it .. that ' s it ..
Ethan Hunt .
... more than I thought .. They scarcely to move to bring their lips together :
Care to wait a decent interval ?
So what ' ve you got against spooks ?
Oh . Well .. this isn ' t exactly by the book .
They ' ve got a book for everything .
Not revealing information doesn ' t necessarily make someone a liar .
Which is ?
So where did I got right ?
I don ' t know that they ' pinched ' it . Don ' t even know that they ' re blokes .
So do I . Sort of .
Of what ?
Damn , you ' re beautiful .
I don ' t think so .
Are you gonna be here a while ?
I ' ll pick ' em up on my way out , okay ?
Sorry I didn ' t let you know where I was .
Well . You ' re sorry and I ' m sorry .
Like what ?
You gotta be kidding .
Well , Dmitri ! How are you ?..
.. I ' m fine .. and you ?
I ' m fine ..
I ' m fine and you ' re fine ..
I ' m fine too .. I ' m fine and you ' re fine - do you remember , dear fried , how you got Sergei and I to repeat those lines from Dr . Strangelove and we gave you the name of that silly Soviet Premier because we didn ' t know your name ?.. In those days , you not only saved our lives , you saved our sanity . ' Now , then Dmitri - we have this little problem ': Every search for a hero must begin with something that every hero requires ; a villain . Therefore , in a search for our hero , Bellerophon , we created a monster Chimera . I beg you , Dmitri , come to Sydney and accompany me to Atlanta immediately . However we travel , I must arrive at me destination , within 20 hours of departure . Forgive this fanciful explanation , but for now prudence dictates that I communicate nothing but the gravest urgency . I fear I can entrust this to no one but you , Dmitri . as we say , ' I ' m sorry and you ' re sorry '..
An idea , yeah .
Like it ' s a good idea to pick him up in a hurry . And a bad idea to fly him on a commercial carrier . So let ' s get on with it . He ' s still in Sydney ?
If he didn ' t want to go anywhere without me , how did you get him on the flight ?
slowly looks up at Swanbeck .
Twice .
So there ' s one thing we know Ambrose doesn ' t .
Whatever Nekhorvich was carrying Sean wanted and he wanted to conceal the fact that he took it .
Sean feels he hasn ' t done the job unless he leaves a lot of hats on the ground .
Right now only Ambrose knows that .
In order to do that , I ' ve got to figure out how he plans to make money with it .
' Terrorists ?'
If that ' s what you ' re thinking Ambrose would have set up a bidding situation with any number of buyers before he got on the plane . Locating him in time to stop something like that -
Excuse me ?
And then what ?
You made it sound as if I was recruiting her for her skills as a thief .
She ' s got no training for this kind of thing .
I don ' t think I can get her to do it .
Very .
Yes . They ' re very nice ..
Five , six - hundred thousand .
And six billion in the world .
Sean Ambrose , for one .
This wasn ' t what I had in mind , Nyah .
Go and insinuate yourself back into Sean ' s life .
So would I . But it ' s not mine to give .
Something like that .
You can be a thief and have a conscience .
I don ' t .
Generally , I don ' t favor coercing someone . Not when there ' s a chance my life could end up in their hands .
Can you think of a better one ?
Look , would it make you feel better if I didn ' t want you to do this ?
Then feel better !..
What wouldn ' t make him suspicious ?
Serious trouble , Nyah , is something I can always arrange ..
When it ' s in your ankle we can track you within three feet of anywhere in the world .
Look , I can ' t run your arrest in CNN , but I guarantee he ' s monitoring every law enforcement agency in the world , for what they might be saying about him , if nothing else - he ' s got the ability and , we assume , the desire to get you out of there .
Well , I mean it ' s not a total loss . It is keeping a very capable thief off the street ..
Well , here we go .
Stop and look for something in you purse .. kneel down ..
- Ambrose will have counter - surveillance second to no one ' s . When and if he contacts you , push this button before you actually end up under his roof it ' ll scramble your transmission to us .
You don ' t trust me .
He ' s got you on Qantas flight 2735 . It ' s going to be delayed .
You ' ll be fine . I ' m going to lose you .
Well , forewarned is forearmed . And while we ' re at it , be especially sensitive to any sudden change in Ambrose ' s plans , especially any involving you ..
Welcome to Australia , mate .
Put in the coordinates and let ' s get a visual . The visuals aren ' t coming up .
leans forward as the slender figure grows larger ,
It ' s okay . She scrambled the transmission . Luther , continue feeding the GPS her position .
We don ' t know what we ' ve got because we don ' t know what he ' s got , where he ' s got it or what he ' s doing in Sydney with it .
Not much luggage .
How grateful ?
On what .
How I usually find you , Nyah .
Magic ...
No flies on her . screen ) No bugs either . She ' s clean .
All cats are .
... therefore in a search for our hero , Bellerophon , we created a monster , Chimera .
A myth .. just a myth ... shouldn ' t you be checking out their countersurveillance ?
.. or hard wired ..
Not at all . But how about going into town and confirming your intuitions on site ?
.. Biocyte workers at Bruny Island .
Mmmm .
Thought you could use a little something to wear .
grips her wrist , the flimsy Armani dangling in the air .
Oh , I am . Later ..
.. therefore in a search for our hero , Bellerophon , we created a monster , Chimera .
Nekhorvich specialized in recombining DNA molecules . In the myth , Bellerophon killed Chimera , a recombinant monster with the head of a lion and the tail of a serpent who plagued the ancient world . I think Nekhorvich has created a monster virus in Chimera and apparently the means to kill it in Bellerophon .
Why not ?
leaning on an elbow , looking down .
I said you ' re beautiful , Nyah .
Won ' t do , love . It ' s not spring . It ' s nearly autumn .. You ' re in Oz . everything ' s upside down and backwards here .
Luther .. get us everything you can on the outbreak of influenza on Bruny Island last month , including photos of the victims .
Yeah ? I ' ve just rolled up a snowball and tosses it into hell .
Now we ' ll see what chance it has .
Twenty - four mil ..
We ' ll need this at the track . Well then . Sorted .
From her point of view or mine ?
Wasn ' t exactly gagging for it when she left you six months ago .. The question is , do you trust her ?
One considers her timing , of course - getting nicked within a week of the plane going down . Suggestive , even borderline suspicious , but hardly conclusive .
Well , you ' ve thorough about it , at any rate .
Tell me , Hugh . You don ' t exactly hang on Nyah ' s every word and gesture , do you ? Fairly ratty nail , that .
You ' re not scrutinizing any casual shrug for some hair - splitting nuance , are you ?
Sean , please ..
Suppose she is some sort of Trojan horse sent in by IMF to spy in us , why should I deny myself the pleasure of a ride or two ? Or don ' t you think I can learn more from her than she can from me ?
I do !..
Now Hugh , you must realize that some of us have the burden of sex to deal with .. and my dear chap . I may or may not know why she thinks she ' s here , but I ' m willing to take the risk , because Hugh , I am gaging for it ..
nag ? She ' d never won a bloody thing .
Say no more . I ' m off to grab a drink . Still favor Bellinis ?
You can speak as if I ' m right by your side .
At the mounting enclosure , just off the tracks at two o ' clock .
How ' s it going ? Everything okay ?
Just like old times ?
Tell me who you ' ve run into at Ambrose ' s .
We know him . He ' s over your left shoulder , looking right at you as you go on ..
Have you met them ?
I ' ve no doubt .
I ' ll be damned . It ' s McCloy , the Biocyte CEO . LUTHER Nekhorvich ' s boss ?
Yep .
Bids from possible Chimera buyers -- to prove that as of the date on the newspaper those bids are back up by earnest money --
Left jacket pocket ?
Confirm . Left jacket pocket .
Nyah , Ambrose is heading back . There ' s an enveloped inside --
Affirmative .
passes by Stamp on his way back , hands him the camera .
Betting table twelve off the paddock . Nyah , are you up to this ?
See anything you like ?
Nyah !
Billy , make sure Nyah ' s not followed .
money ) Hold on .
What else ?
Luther , smallest digital you got . Ready to transmit . Betting table twelve .
approaches the door thru which Nyah had gone and starts to open it - only to have the door slammed in his face and on his bandaged finger by Billy , in a track usher ' s uniforms .
Say again ?
Whatever you ' re about in future , watch your step . Never know who you might run into ...
Where ' s the loo then ?
How ' d you do ? Don ' t turn around .
You noticed . What ' re you going to do ? Spank me ?
Copy that . Who do you like ? In the race ?
I want you out of Ambrose ' s place .

Nyah , you ' ve done more than enough . Even the best of snake charmers get bit .
I want you out of Australia ! .. I don ' t know how much more plainly I can put it .
He ' s touched your heart . You ' re overwhelmed . You need to think it over . You ' ll meet him somewhere in a month . If You ' re not out in 48 hours I ' m coming in and getting you out . Give me the ear piece .
Get your bet down ?
Your nag is making a run for it on the outside ! Bloody hell , Nyah !
Dr . Segi Gradski , Nekhorvich ' s colleague and lifelong friend ..
Six hours later .
Nekhorvich said ' However we travel , I must arrive at my destination within 20 hours hours of departure .'
To Australia . It ' s made so many convicts feel at home . Here ' s hoping it does the same for you ..
Then don ' t say it .
To do what ?
And you ' re going to have time . There ' s been a change of plans .
Yes . We won ' t be able to have dinner tonight . Something ' s come up . I hope you don ' t mind .
Ulrich will be about . He ' ll look after you .
I thought you were going to dinner .
computer ) Hugh , take care of the Nekhorvich memory card .
Where is it ?
In the envelope in my pocket . My right .. jacket .. pocket ..
Chimera attacking human blood ..
I don ' t know , but Nekhorvich was not a manic . Get me a twenty on Nyah .
a shimmering blur coming in and out of focus .
A visit from an old friend .
Fatigued , certainly . But dead is a little extreme . On the other hand , when me dear Gradski had your pulse and blood pressure he has less than ten hours to live .
my friend .
Easy , easy , easy , shhh !
Are you okay ?
It ' s going to be okay .
No use , my friend . The medical staff wants no part of this . Doctors don ' t fancy the idea of dying any more than anybody else .
That ' s exactly what Gradski said - 27 hours before he died . With the most minute exposure can be fatal .
But then you shouldn ' t be feeling to ill . not for another three of four hours anyway .
Do I ?
' If ?' My , my , my ... the five hundred people on Bruny Island that you deliberately infected with needed it as well .
By asking me .
You wanted the disease in order to peddle the cure .
You know , I think it ' s a little late for that . Do give my regards to Gradski if you see him . Nekhorvich heaves a sigh and rips off a latex mask , and the vocal oscillator , revealing an exhausted Ethan . Angle widens to include Luther and Billy in hospital greens .
Nyah , it ' s very important not do anything to alarm Ambrose ..
No time to explain . You ' ve done well , and we ' re so close . So close . It ' s critical that you do whatever Ambrose asks . Don ' t worry - it ' ll be over soon .. That ' s a promise .. Come on , now off you go !
Ambrose got Bellerophon from Nekhorvich on the plane , but he didn ' t get the Chimera virus .
I kill Chimera at Biocyte and he ' s sitting on a cure without a disease .
You were right . Hunt stung McCloy tonight . He knows . They ' ll be going into Biocyte ...
Good .. then we go where he ' ll be , don ' t we ? Well done , Hugh . Well done .
Luther , do you have the building up and running ?
Nyah still on the property ?
Let ' s start from the inside out .
Now how to get in there .
If you look at Hunt ' s operational history , he invariably favors misdirection and deception . For a start he won ' t go into Biocyte from the ground where he has to risk confrontation with security .
Security ?
I ' m not waiting 48 hours . When we ' re done at Biocyte , if she ' s not out of Ambrose ' s , I ' m going in and getting her out .
No , Hunt will prefer to engage in some sort of acrobatic insanity to enter Biocyte somewhere through the atrium where security is minimal ..
I ' m gone ..
Luther , I ' m looking at security .
at the control panels for maintaining the virus .
who turns the barrel from the hyper - thermal chamber and releases into his wrist .
Get it .
Those were two explosions , your van and your safehouse , in case you didn ' t hear them both -- I believe that means you ' ve also lost a friend .
And you couldn ' t walk to tell me about it .
Hold your fire , dammit !
And you ' re happy about that ?
Beats fighting the flu , I ' m here to tell you .
You know , that was the hardest part of having to portray you . Grinning like an idiot every fifteen minutes .
I would ' ve thought the hardest part was exercising restraint . Curbing that pressing need of your to get your gun off . You were in such a hurry to knock off that 747 , you never figured out where the virus really was .
I knew where it was .
Oh . then you knew the only way could smuggle the live virus to the CDC scientists in Atlanta was by injecting himself and using his own bloodstream as a Petri dish , doing it inside of twenty hours so he could take the anti - virus and still have it be effective . You knew that while you were knocking him off and destroying the very thing you came for .
Stop ! Put a sock in it ! Hit that bloody gun and you ' ll spray the bloody virus all over the place !
There it is , guys , the last of it .
Yep . You ' ve provided us with a golden opportunity to have both the bug and the bug killer .
What was the top bid ?
Why , you going to make me a better offer ?
Than thirty - seven million pounds ? Not really .
Somebody ' s been slipping you our mail . Come on out here , you bad girl .
She doesn ' t belong here , Sean . Let her go .
She wouldn ' t be here if it wasn ' t for you , Hunt . from this moment you ' re responsible for what happens to her , and if you ' re looking out for her well - being , I suggest you advise her to pick up the gun and bring it to me . Ball ' s in your court , Hunt . What ' ve you got to say ? Nyah ' s waiting for your answer .
Thank you .
Oh , Hunt , please ! One can ' t hold Nyah responsible for her actions ..
In other words , you ' re calling her a flake .
You know women , mate . Like monkeys , they are . Won ' t let go of one branch til they ' ve got a grip on the next ... get it , Nyah . I ' ll cover you .
shocked by Nyah ' s gesture but as she addresses Ambrose he resets the ' Countdown ' on his chronometer to twenty hours . As it drops into the nineteen :
You .. bitch !
What did you think you were doing !
- you who don ' t have a conscience .
No .
No .
We ' ve got 19 hours and 57 minutes before you start killing anybody . I ' ll get Bellerophon into your system by then . Just stay alive . I ' m not gonna lose you .
Not yet . We did manage to pull any sensitive equipment and material out of our safehouse wreckage .
We think we ' ve got our finger on the buyer .
Yes , I believe that ' s right .
You mean that leaves Miss Hall .
She sacrificed herself ..
Aren ' t you even curious ? About why she did it ?
Feel like pleading for your life ?
God damn it , Nyah ! Why did you do it ? Why did you save that bastard ?
If it ' ll make you feel any better , you ' re going to take a lot of Aussies with you and make me a lot of money .
In just a few hours you can be assured of going down in history as the typhoid Mary of Oz . G ' day .
Luther ?.. Luther .
Ninety - seven minutes , twenty - seven seconds .
Wrong . All we ' ve got to worry about is Ambrose . Nyah will take care of Nyah .
Unless we dose her with Bellerophon on the next ninety - seven minutes , Nyah will kill herself . So , first things , first . Swanbeck said there ' s no cash movement from any monitored terrorist accounts .
Confirms what Ambrose is gonna do -
Copy that .
Risky .
Breached the structure at the ten o ' clock grating . In the tunnel moving toward the target .
Not exactly . Wallis ?
More like two - two point two million .
In any case we don ' t want your cash .
Stock , Mr . McCloy . Stock options , to be a little more precise .. - cut her loose .. right in the center of town .. the more crowded the better .. How quickly can you manufacture more of the antivirus .
Where is she ?
' Somewhere in Sydney ?' Care to harden the target ?
The clock is ticking ..
Good . Biocyte stock is just a week or two away from going through the roof .

In downtown Sydney for a start .
-- now here ' s the way it ' s going to work .. Wallis , the shares outstanding are ..
Ninety - three point four million .
Run that bastard down .
We ' re running short on time , Mr . McCloy . We ' ve got to conclude our business .
Follow it . Let me know .
You broke our deal .
You ' re too trusting . Raise your hands slowly .
Keep it going .
Is he alive ?
Bring him to me .
Sean . Transfer complete .
Well , mate , maybe this is one of those times we shouldn ' t follow orders .
What have you got to say for yourself . Hunt ? Any last words ?
Afraid he ' s got no choice . I believe I broke his jaw .
Hugh , I ' m impressed ..
You needn ' t watch .
- right . We don ' t have a lot of time , Hunt . whatever you ' ve got to say , say it now .
The field of fire is too heavy . Back off and pinpoint their positions .
Hunt ' s heading for the bridge . Coming in at twelve o ' clock high .
Clear that bridge for me .
Luther , say again .
Copy . She ' s only got twenty - eight minutes left . Track ahead and pick her up .
You ' re breaking up . Track ahead and pick her up . You ' ve got me on GPS . Bring her to me .
Get him .
Shut up . I know what I ' m doing .
Go ahead . Use it Hunt . It ' s not a bad way to go . A lot better than the way that bitch is going to die .
Hunt . You should have killed me .
You ' d like me to conduct my own debriefing .
I ' d thank you -- but I ' m not sure that was a compliment .
Yes , I gathered as much .
Yes .
Well , Bellerophon , it turns out , was only really effective against Chimera .
By fire . That ' s the best way , really .
No , I don ' t . But in this case -
I do .
I don ' t . No exactly .
Not sure . Some sort of vacation . I ' ll let you know where I ' m going .
Good job . And thanks .
No . Should I ?
No ...
Let ' s get lost .
