They arrived almost half a century ago . Aliens , Scavs , whatever you want to call them . Their idea of how - do - you - do was to blow up our moon .
Without her moon , the earth went insane . Most were killed in the floods , as the cities came down , as everything caught fire . A year later their ground troops landed , to exterminate whoever was left . A station wagon half protrudes from a lava flow . A child ' s plastic flip - flops on the dash .
They were probably surprised , what we were willing to do , to survive . We used the nukes .
Humanity had to flee the Earth . We had to unlearn what it meant , to call something our home . Now we live on the Tet , our man - made moon . A temporary home before the next step . Everyone ' s there now .
Yeah , I got ' em . You got ' em , Bob ? The Bobblehead bobs .
Oh , you know . Same ole ' same . In front of Victoria , almost a hundred years of technological advances . Most prominent a MAP overlaid with environmental , meteorological , radiation levels ... Other screens stream cam - footage from the Bubbleship .
You should come with me sometime .
What do you call this ? What does a storm look like inside a storm ? Like this . The WALL OF WEATHER comes out of the wind and rain from behind Jack ' s ship , simply eats it up . Suddenly Jack ' s going end over end , helpless . Warning lights flash . Jack punches controls that won ' t respond .
" I ' ve got sunshine ...
on a cloudy day . When it ' s cold outside I ' ve got the month of May ..." Victoria watches the readouts , helpless .
" I guess you ' d say ... What can make me feel this way ?" Okay , Bob . Need you to work with me here . In the Bubbleship , Jack works the display , literally SMACKS a panel with his fist . Suddenly , the Bubbleship SURGES with power . Jack regains control as :
" Talkin ' ' bout my girl ..." Jack shifts the Bubbleship , in the distance a series of RESOURCE - GATHERERS on the horizon . Essentially titanic vacuums , sucking up the oceans . In front of her console , VICTORIA charts the Gatherers , and the patrol arcs of their defensive Drones . One blinks , stalled .
Send it . NUMBERS FIRE across the heads - up . Jack touches a button . A BAR GAUGE begins to fill , like a street racer turning on the NOX before dragging ...
Absolutely not . Bar gaucre hits top . Jack punches it . JACK vibrates in his seat , pinned back . The ship SCREAMS over the surface , following the signal . Now A HUGE CRATER opens up in front of him which he DROPS INTO , barely missing an edge ... which seems to have architecture to it . The ship skims close along the walls which are revealed to be rows and rows of stadium seats , half buried in sand . We ' re in Giants Stadium , New Jersey . Old news to Jack . He surveys below ...
I see it , looks like full mid - flight impact . What was its last destination ? BELOW , through blowing dust , we see a DRONE , a spherical mechanical weapon , plunged into the sand .
You know , I actually read about this game . Giants are literally on their own seven with 25 seconds on the clock ...
Anyway ... QB lets off this mile - high bomb ... The weather ' s fast and erratic like this . As Jack starts moving towards the Drone , a heavy mist forms , shrouding it in grey . There ' s almost no sound , just Jack ' s feet on earth ...
The thing just sails the length of the field . Victoria anxiously checks a screen , the arc of the Tet ' s " vision " still not covering Jack ' s location .
And at the one yard line ... interception . Devastation . It ' s all over .
But the guy ' s too eager . He starts running it back . Everyone ' s yelling " Fall down , just fall down !" Jack goes to his knees , examining it , his hands expertly locate an empty tube - like space on the side of the Drone .
Huh ... The fuel - cell has been taken .
No ... It ' s a master drone , too . 166 . Looks like it was hit mid flight , managed to limp its way here . Watch my back , I ' m starting field repair . INTERCUT : VICTORIA AT SKY TOWER . Glances at the arc of the Tet ' s vision - still six minutes away .
Bob , I ' m going to need a cell . AT THE BUBBLESHIP . An exterior compartment opens revealing spare parts , etc ... At the same time , a small ROVER , an ball - shaped independent gopher , rolls free from the ship , sprouting wheels ...
So the guy keeps running . 30 , 40 , 50 yards and BAM ! He gets pasted . Ball goes loose ...
And wouldn ' t you know it , Giants recover , start running it back . Total insanity .
Bob , I said I needed ... He turns to find that the ROVER is already there , a DEUTERIUM FUEL CELL sitting in its payload bay . A SOUND now reaches Jack . Distant , an animal in pain ? Jack listens , but it ' s gone . He slots the cell . A HUMMMM as the Drone powers up , systems coming online . Jack looks around at the stadium .
Can you imagine it ? 80 , 000 people on their feet . Everyone yelling " Go ! Go ! Go !..." Touchdown ... He sets his gun against the Drone , raises his arms , running in a circle , making the crowd roar sound ...
" Yahhhhhhhhhhhhhh ... ."
Hey there , boy . Easy ... Jack moves forward , hand out .
You got nothing to be scared of , buddy ... The dog suddenly SCURRIES away into the dark BEHIND JACK , a HUGE FORM RISES . We see GREY SKIN , TEETH ... and Jack hears ITS HEAVY LABORED BREATH ...
Ah , shi ... JACK SPRINTS , full speed ! The animal , A GIANT EMACIATED HAIRLESS BEAR , comes SURGING out of the darkness , lumbering after him . Jack TEARS back down the tunnel , the bear ' s form almost FILLING the tunnel behind him .
Call in number 166 for service up top . It ' s practically got its motherboard and half its hydraulics hanging out . But it still wants to kill everybody ...
I ' ll see you at the house later . You want anything ? Milk ? Bread ? Anything else that doesn ' t exist ?
Well if you want anybody else , you ' re out of luck . He boards the BUBBLESHIP .
No ... ON JACK . The captured Drone data right there in front of him on the heads - up . He ' s too curious .
That Master Drone was hit right over mid - town . Same area as the one we lost last night .
One day when we get to Mars , someone will want to know about this . From someone who was here . He stares at the HUGE columns of water draining upwards .
Do we have to take it all ?
Actually I ' ve got a bit of a problem with a gyro here , call you when I ' ve fixed it . He releases a catch , pulls a WHITE RECTANGULAR CASE from a slot in the Bubbleship . He kneels down , hands working expertly , producing a full UNFOLDING MOTORCYCLE . As Jack locks the rear wheel in place , the bike HUMMS to life . He gets on and opens up the throttle , rooster - tailing off . The bike ' s electric , but it MOVES .
. There you are . An instant of BLACK ... And we ' re suddenly looking at Jack THROUGH ALIEN BINOCULARS . High tech , symbol readouts changing . Something is watching him .
Vika , you ' re not going to believe ... WHITE NOISE on the comm . There ' s no signal down here .
. Jackpot .
EXPLETIVES ) That was my bike !! He kicks at the dust , the rocks , curses at the pain as he ' s reminded of his injured leg . He stares at the long walk ahead , the wall of wind and rain that now hits him , soaking him . He starts walking .
Goodnight , folks ... See you back here tomorrow . Same time , same channel ... He punches the throttle , and screams across the tops of the clouds through the beautiful light , arriving at ...
No . I ' m not supposed to bring them in the house . He ' s right . He exchanges his water for a glass of something stronger , and goes and sits down .
You ' re right .
Ah - ha . So it ' s okay when I bring you something . But if I -- She MOVES suddenly , opening one of the glass doors of the Sky Tower and heading outside where she holds the seedling away from her body , off the edge , lets it drop .
Was that really necessary ?
It was just a plant , Victoria .
Hit me . She activates the wand , shines ultra violet light onto the substance . A beat , then he BENDS OVER in pain . Through the healant we see the FLESH begin to knit and repair . Skin and sinew literally regenerating ... to new .
Look , they trained me to fix drones . That ' s my job , I get that . But it ' s not what I am . I can ' t simply do the same thing over and over again , every day , with that ... world down there . And if mission has a better Drone tech , they can get him to baby - sit . He gets up , tries out his leg . Stiff , but healed .
Pretty soon , there won ' t be anything left down there . No more plant life , no more water .
So forgive me if I want to enjoy it a little before the end .
Actually , it was like they were trying to ... catch me . Guess I look tasty . He goes over to her , puts his arms around her .
Come on .
It ' s not so bad down here . They certainly don ' t have anything like this .
I ' d have been overhauling the zero - G toilets .
I ' m serious , it ' s dangerous work . I mean , you think you have control of the situation . He swims closer . She smiles , he presses on .
But then you realize , there are some things that were never supposed to happen in zero G .
It ' s awful . Just thinking about it , I get afraid ... She LAUGHS , reaches for her wine , accidentally knocks the glass which tips over , and rolls right off the Sky Tower . They watch it disappear into the darkness below .
Ocops .
Here , let me show you ... He reaches up PULLS her into the pool . She screams , laughing as she goes in . She surfaces , pulling her soaking shirt over her head and tossing it to the side .
. Then what would you say in your report ? Victoria looks away , stuck .
I can ' t get to a site fast enough unless I ' m already out there . You know that . He turns , disappears through the glass mechanical doors .
One , Two , Three . Jack Harper . Lights sparkle across the board . Activation sounds . Jack hits switches . Outside , protective barriers lower . The stratospheric wind VIBRATES the bubbleship .
What say we have a little fun today , Bob ? The Bobblehead vibrates along with the engines . INTERCUT VICTORIA putting on her headset .
Just thinking I ' d take Bob manual for the dust - off . Feeling the need .
Drone ? Already she ' s got the signal analyzed on six different screens . No matches ...
Don ' t be embarrassed , there ' s always a first time .
All right , I ' m coming up to the location . Jack begins flying slowly up the twelve hundred foot wall of falling water which almost seems to conceal a Petra behind its veil . Jack reaches the top ... JACK ' S POV - THE SPIRE AND OBSERVATIONAL DECK of the EMPIRE STATE BUILDING , now part of a cliff , set in shifted sea - bed , a gushing river pouring past .
New York , New York ... It ' s a wonderful town . The Bronx is up , and the Battery ' s down ... He can hear nothing over the wind and the water . He moves to the balcony edge , looks " downtown " at the sunken city . A Venice set in a matrice of rubble and sea - bed .
Bob , give me audible on this signal . Almost immediately from the Bubbleship comes the intermittent electronic SQUACK of the signal .
It ' s an old radio system . It ' s been reactivated .
It ' s the Empire State --
Yeah , I may have seen another drone trap ...
It ' s okay --
-- will cook me from the inside before I know it . Don ' t worry , I ' m still more than five clicks from the beacons ... IN THE BUBBLESHIP . A BIGGER ALARM goes off , Red skull - and - crossbones flash across the heads - up . Jack DIVES the ship , down over huge rocky outcroppings . Jack , intent on piloting . Static . Some GARBLED SOUNDS . Victoria ' s voice barely coming through .
That ' s right , Bob . You know where we ' re going .
So , um ... Victoria . The ROVER shifts , confused .
I was thinking , when our tour is up , maybe we ' d stay . We could put in for another -- Wait , wait . Stop yelling . Hear me out . No , don ' t throw that , that ' s a ... The ROVER turns around . Jack smiles at the poor machine ' s confusion . The smile dying ... this is serious .
Maybe you should go , and I should stay ...
I should stay ... His eyes ... close .
Bob ! Let ' s get going ! The Bubbleship is already powering up by the time Jack piles in . He touches a control and the ship shoots up into the air .
Vika ? Vika , did you get that ? An object hit near here . A ship .
I saw it through optics in the last minute . I ' m not sure it was alien .
The Drones ' ll kill anything that moves .
Vika ...
Negative . I ' ll report when I get to the site .
What are you looking at ?
I ' m here , and it ' s definitely one of ours .
I ' m confirming it . I ' m right here . Vika works her displays , scanning , wanting to keep him safe . The wreckage has strewn out thousands of flaming pieces of debris , all which register heat signatures .
This thing is ancient , one of the old pre - war shuttles . JACK ' S POV - THE WRECKAGE . The ship ' s guts are strewn across the earth . Several pod - like canisters strewn around , more fixed into the burning wreckage .
OKAY SVUNK ! SVUNK ! Behind Jack , plasma rounds impact the Pod with the man in it , the metal going nova , collapsing ...
NO ! 1 ! Cannon fire erupts all around him ! TWO DRONES settle on the site , their weapons kicking out energy , locking on and destroying Pods ...
NO ! NO ! They ' re firing on the ship . Vika , it ' s one of ours .
There are people here , and they ' re killing them ! Victoria opens her mouth to respond . She can ' t .
Get out of here ! Go away ! Get ! A moment of insane bravado , Jack un - shoulders his weapon , strafes the Drone with gunfire which knocks it back . It re - centers , weapons chugging with energy . INTERCUT VICTORIA . Staring at the feeds . A screen catching a half - image of Jack firing at the Drone . She ' s absolutely still , holding her breath ... Jack stares at the Drone , at certain death .
Well , what the hell are you waiting for ? GO ON ! And suddenly , the Drone moves on , Canons live , searching on into the wreckage , annihilating other Pods . ON JACK , chest heaving ... An instant of BLACK , shuttering back to : CROSS - HAIR POV : We suddenly see Jack through CROSS - HAIRS , tracking him as he shields the Delta Pod with his body , dragging it towards the Bubbleship ...
It ' s you ...
Open it ! Victoria obeys , opens the glass doors . WIND fills the living room as Jack hauls the Pod in . Then Victoria touches a control and the walls SEAL .
The drones tried to kill her . They destroyed the other survivors .
She came off a NASA shuttle . The drones were specifically targeting the pods --
Protocol ? Protocol ?! Who ' s the machinery now , Victoria ? VICTORIA stares at him . Then retreats from the question into the task at hand . She kneels by the Pod .
I know it does . And when we report it , we ' ll also report that drones slaughtered the other human survivors from one of our ships . See what they make of that . He goes for the equipment . Victoria stares at the woman ' s face , deeply unsettled ... Jack returns with Victoria ' s bag , and firing up a CUTTER .
You ' re safe . You ' re in a skytower , on Earth .
I know .
I know . The glass door slides open behind them . Neither move .
It ' s a Greek funeral vase . Which I want my ashes in , incidentally . Victoria collects the dishes , heads for the kitchen .
I just think we need to know why .
And what if I can ' t ? They stare at each other , each obscurely frightened .
I read these books , of what it was like down here , before ... He sits , his legs dangling into the water . She pulls up close , her arms on the side .
In this one book I was reading , a man describes being a child . He remembers a yellow kitchen , a baked apple .
What was so wonderful about life on the Tet ? She looks away ...
When our time is up next month . I want to put in for one more tour . Victoria pushes off from the side , drifts back ...
It ' s almost all gone , Victoria . I want to be here for the end . She turns , resumes swimming laps . Hard , driving through the water . He watches her for a moment , then turns away .
VIKA -- She turns and grabs him , desperate .
I don ' t know if it is or not , Victoria . I can ' t remember . She starts to reply ... has nothing . Shakes her head . She grabs blankets and pulls them around herself , her back to him , her eyes open , scared . Jack also lies down , staring upwards . And then Jack asks the 64 , 000 dollar
Do you remember her ? Victoria doesn ' t move . Stares straight out .
It ' s beautiful , isn ' t it ? It ' s your home now .
What was your shuttle ' s mission ? She turns to him , watches him carefully in the dim light . And then , lying :
Your ship ... it ' s pre - war .
No . No , of course not . This answers something important for Julia .
. There was a transmission . I don ' t know who sent it .
Funnily enough , you ' ve found your man .
How did you know my name ?
In a few hours , the Tet will come online . Victoria will report your rescue and I imagine they ' ll send someone down for you .
Yes . She gestures out to the Bubbleship on its pad .
. You could say that . She SMILES , pleased . A twinkle in her eye ...
I ' ll bring her back before Tet - Rise . We just want to try to find the flight recorder . You can ' t know everything watching from a mile up .
She ' s the flight officer , she wants . to see the wreck of her ship and secure items there . You ' d want to do the same thing .
Don ' t worry , we ' ll be back before you have to make your report .
I ' ll be fine . He turns and boards . Julia is staring at her through the bubble - canopy . The bubbleship rises and then falls off to the side , plummeting towards earth .
I ' ll be home for breakfast . And he SWITCHES OFF the Comm .
The Scavs assumed taking out the moon would wipe us out , and it almost did . But we re - grouped , fought back . We beat them in the end . She glances at him .
That ' s if you call nuking half the planet beating anybody . He looks at her , shrugs . They fly past a RESOURCE GATHER , its column of water lifting from the seas .
We harvest seawater to supply the Mars colony with the energy we need to live there . We ' re almost done . Pretty soon , there ' ll be no more water down here .
Yeah . What ' s left of us are up there now , ready to go where you were headed , Mars . 40 acres and a mule . What we ' ve got left . What you ' ve got . Julia stares out at the Tet .
We were born and raised up there . Vika ' s the A - student . I ' m just a tech ... I fix things . I ...
Why are you looking at me like that ?
Look , it doesn ' t matter --
We should stay close to ... She ignores him , moves on . Deeper in the wreckage , she locates the empty moorings that held the Steel Cylinder Jack saw . It ' s also gone .
What was it ? She STARES at him , wanting to say something . Deciding not to . She leans back against a wall of the shuttle .
I ' m sorry . INTERCUT : Victoria watches as MORE AND MORE Alien figures pass the camera feed . Moving towards Jack and Julia ' s position . Victoria , HELPLESS . Julia looks up at Jack , directly for the first time . He stares at her ...
How do I know you ... ON JULIA ' S FACE . Suddenly her vision racks ... JACK SPINS , sees emerging out of the mist , SCAVS . A dozen of them . Alien tribesmen , bristling with weapons , war - like high - tech headdresses . Mandibles and claws . Terrifying and close . Jack reaches for his weapon , bringing it around and -- SLAM ! He ' s hit from the side by a SCAV . Its armored body bringing him to the ground . He tries to CRAWL AWAY , sees Julia grabbed . He twists , sees Scavs crawling over the Bubbleship .
Bob ! HOME ! In the background , the Bubbleship BLASTS OFF , Scavs falling off as Jack KICKS BACKWARDS , breaking the Scavs hold . He rolls away towards his weapon - - straight into the legs of a GIANT SCAV holding an improvised club which now comes down , IMPACTING JACK ...
MonteCristo , # 2 . Do you have any idea how long I ' ve waited , for this ? He EXHALES a stream of smoke into the beam , then moves closer , into the light . Beech ' s face is lined with age and exposure , his skin scarred from battle . His teeth yellowed and crooked , but his arms and body are strong . Jack TENSES . Beech ' s voice is calm , with a barely held - back malice lurking just under the surface .
Well , let me tell you , Jack . It ' s been a long time ...
Who are you ? Where is this ? BEECH inhales again . There ' s a piercing curiosity to Beech ' s gaze , studying him .
We ' re deep underground . Very deep underground .
We were taken by the Scavs ...
Oh ... The " Scavs ".
No , of course not . You just repair the damage , keep the Drones up and killing . Don ' t ask many questions , do you , Jack ? No part of the ...
Brutal , if you think about it . The way your Drones -
The Scavs took everything from us . And if you ' re working with them --
Interesting , Jack . Interesting . You ' re worried I might be some kind of ... Collaborator . Jack doesn ' t respond .
Lllllllights ! A beat , then a BANK of lights flickers on , revealing HUMANS , all around them , heavily armed . Julia GROANS , the light bringing her to . Jack moves to protect her , tracks ten , TWENTY people ... He looks UP where ROWS AND ROWS of men and women stare down from above with undisguised animosity . Forty , fifty more ... At the front , a strong battle - scared Scav , SYKES , hovers on the edge of violence . He ' s been recently WOUNDED .
You see ...? We ' re not Aliens , Jack . We ' re very much human . Jack can ' t process . Human face after human face .
Of course that ' s a problem . Your drones go for human shapes , human voices . So ... we change our shapes , change our voices .
No , they ' re programmed to
To what , Jack ?
Anyone would have ...
Anyone . Would have . Interesting . Julia comes around , her eyes flickering open , She SCREAMS , looking frantically for an escape . Jack GRABS her , protecting her , calming her . Beech gets CLOSE , studies Jack , what he ' s doing . Nods .
Very interesting . Beech moves away . Jack moves after him and suddenly forty or more weapons lock onto him . Sykes closer than any other .
Careful , Jack . I ' m afraid you ' re not very popular here . Beech switches his gaze to Julia .
Welcome back to earth , commander . Hope you like what we ' ve done with the place .
We grow what we can , under the lights . It isn ' t much ; Wheat - grass , some vegetables , what beans and soy we can . The general state of our health proves that human beings are not herbivores , but the alternative is not appetizing to anybody .
When we get you up to the Tet , there ' s plenty -
There is ? Plenty . Plenty of what ?
Food . Foreveryone .
The zones ... the area you don ' t patrol ...
No one does . You go there ---
-- Your organs boil from the inside . I ' ve heard . Beech moves on , turning down another corridor . There are PAINTINGS , stacked against the walls . Picasso , Monet , Kandinsky , Warhol . SCULPTURES in piles .
It took three decades to build the Tet . And when it was finally ready and it was time to go up , there were people who refused . Leaders , who told their people to stay . Staring at Beech , the glint in the man ' s eyes ...
And so they stayed . And they were slaughtered . Whatever the conversation is , it doesn ' t go well . Sykes storms off , angry . Other Scavs go with him .
. It ' ll be fine . Trust me .
I ' ll be home for breakfast . Alone in the Sky Tower , this hits Victoria hard . REWIND . Victoria STARES at the counter , letting it go further back . Then , PLAY . Just STATIC . Then we hear Victoria ' s end of a conversation we already witnessed :
I know what I did . But tell us , Commander , why did you have a bomb on board , what was it for ? Tell him . She looks at Jack , reluctant to say it , but ...
It attacked us . First it destroyed our moon . Then it unleashed its primary weapon , a brilliant weapon ...
I was born there !
I was born in Chicago , Jack . I used to go to baseball games with my father . I used to get two big hot dogs , fill ' em up with relish , and mustard . Just go to town . Me and my pops , watching the sox . You have any memories like that Jack ?
No , my father was a --
Was what ? Tall ? Fat ? He yell at your mom ? Ever go to a baseball game , Jack ?
I already told you --
Right , sorry . Tell me how your mother smelled .
What ?
My mother , smelled like warm fruit . Like oranges , sitting in the sun . Jack starts to speak ... Stops . Beech moves to one of the scavenged DELTA SLEEP PODS , runs his hand over the embossed name - plate ...
If you had looked more carefully at the wreckage of the odyssey , you would have noticed there were two empty sleep pods . The Pilot , and the Co - pilot ... Jack stares at the name plate on the POD : " J . Harper ."
What ?
No .
The Tet is an alien vessel , Commander Jack Harper . It came and destroyed our moon and most of humanity when it did . And ever since , with your help , it ' s been trying to finish the job .
But now , with your help , we can finally destroy it .
You ' re insane . This is insane . He turns to Julia , but she won ' t help him .
There are people up there -
What ? People like you ? We are the last real people .
Pockets like this one , hiding out , dying . Probably all over the planet . Beech raises his gaze to Jack . Deadly serious .
We didn ' t win the war , Jack . We lost . These words hit Jack . He starts to reply , finds he can ' t . Beech approaches , fatherly , gentle .
It has taken us ten years to get here , but we finally have a weapon , and a working Drone to carry it . Except we can ' t successfully program the Drone . It ' s not our technology .
It followed him here . I told you this was a mistake ! Beech , processing . All around the periphery , REACTION . This is a disaster .
Well well , we may be out of time . Set the Drone to return to the Tet upon reactivation . It needs to go right to the center --
No ! It will kill -
It will kill that ugly stain on the sky . That ' s all ! Now program the Drone ! Soldiers push Jack towards the opened Drone . Jack stares at the read - outs , the electronics . Sykes GRABS a weapon from a female Scav soldier , lines it on Jack .
No . I won ' t do it .
He won ' t help us . We bury them both , make our run as soon as we can load up .
You know I stare into weapons every day , so you can put that away . Because here ' s what I can tell you ... If the Rover found us , the Drones will too . Unless you want them to find you , let me get somewhere where I can send a signal . Somewhere far from here . Beech ... caught .
What ' s your plan , Jack ? Tell the Tet where we are , so they can send a nice big welcome --
The Drones would kill you . Let me try to stop that .
You can ' t trust him !
You ' re wasting time . On Beech , Sykes ...
I can fix this .
Well , you ' re the repairman . Jack powers up the bike and gets on . He looks at Julia who hesitates , then she climbs on the back of the bike .
I ' ll get to the antenna , send a signal with my location . The Tet will call off the search . . You should be safe , for now . Jack starts to go .
Jack ... What if I told you that I had been to your radiation zones . And what I found there ... Would change everything you think you know about the world .
What makes you think he ' s any different from the others ? Beech stares at him a moment , then back out .
She does . Beech turns away .
The Scavs brought it down ten years ago . All . this time , I thought we were at war with the Scavs ... but it turns out we were just killing each other . He turns , heads off on foot . After a moment , she follows .
I don ' t think they ' ll have those on Mars , Honey .
Yes . When we get there . ON VICTORIA . Her face totally still . Strangely frozen in the face of this sweet little exchange ...
That old man is smart . Those fuel cells , the way he ' s got them tied in with your device ... He could blow the whole station .
What do you want from me ? I ' m just a repairman .
Look , stop , okay ? Just --
I don ' t know who you ' re talking
STOP ! You and that old man have this story ... Except I know who I am , okay ? I know who I am !
Why do I ... what is it about this place ?
When I sleep . You ' re always there . She kisses him .
Vika , it ' s me . I ' m ... all right . I ' m coming in . Don ' t report in to Mission , not until I get back . No response . Dead air . Julia is pressed far back in her seat , watching Jack .
. I ' m 20 minutes out . A TONE makes Victoria look over . The Tet , checking in .
Vika ... the Scavs . They ' re humans , like us . The war has become some giant ... mistake . She turns . The heartbreak in her face clear .
SHE ' S -- VICTORIA Stay away from me with the truth ! I don ' t want the truth . I preferred oblivion . Victoria looks up , sees Julia in the distance ...
Vika , she was my wife . She looks at the infinite sky , the clouds , and as the TET appears ... He steps towards her and she backs towards the edge .
Then come with me . Don ' t you see what it means ? There are still people , living on Earth . Surviving on earth . People like us . Victoria hears that and laughs , bitter .
Vika ? Her laughter dies . She looks at him , strangely calm , beautiful in this moment .
NOOO1 PETALS are falling towards us from the skytower , and then , so is VICTORIA .
This is Technician Jack Harper . The signal goes out . Beat . Beat ...
She ' s dead .
Did you hear what I said ? She ' s dead !
I want to talk to somebody . Beat .
DAMN YOU ! I want to hear your voice ! Beat . Beat . Tet Comm Status : " Communication Ended ." He stares at this last transmission . Then looks up to the big map . From all over the sector , DRONES are closing on the Sky Tower . Closing on him .
We have to go .
Beech said to look in the radiation zones . I have to go there .
I ' ve been wrong about everything else . He dives the ship towards the clouds below .
There ... He punches the throttle . The Bubbleship with Drone 166 attached blasts in the direction of A CLIFF FACE . DRONE 166 gets free of one restraint , rotates so its cannon come to bear on part of the undercarriage . OPENS UP , blasting the storage to bits ... And Jack PULLS UP , just clearing the ridge , Drone 166 IMPACTING ROCK . The Drone blasts clear through , CRASHES
You okay ?
Radiation warning . We ' re five clicks from the border . Jack makes an adjustment , the Bubbleship SURGES with more speed . It sounds like it ' s going to tear itself apart .
I got this . Jack hits it . They ' re both propelled back into their seats . The radiation zone coming up fast ... They CROSS
Bob ! BOB ! What are you doing Bob !!!!! Bob just bobbles ... BLAM ! BLAM BLAM !! The blasts from Drone 166 impact them , helpless .
Hold on !! Jack grabs a level , a mechanical lever , and HAULS IT UP . THE COCKPIT OF THE SHIP SEPARATES FROM THE BODY . The dead body of the ship tumbles backwards as Drone 166 BLASTS IT , tries to pull up but the Bubbleship IMPACTS Drone 166 which SPINS OUT OF CONTROL towards the ground . THE BUBBLESHIP COCKPIT skims the surface , IMPACTS a ridge , blasting through it . It hits another ridge , the canopy shattering , earth piling in on them as they finally grid to a stop . Jack groans , leans to checks that Julia is okay . She ' s coughing , dazed , but alive .
Son of a bitch , old man ... Words die on his lips as he tracks the plume of smoke from the downed Drone 166 , lifting over a nearby ridge . He turns back to the ruined ship , grabs his carbine .
Stay here . Jack runs towards the smoke which is already being blown clear by a rising sand storm . He flops down in the dirt at the top of the rise , bringing his weapon up . JACK ' S POV - DRONE 166 . It lies smashed and smoking at the bottom of an incline . Finally dead . The wind and sand are beginning to whistle now , growing intensity ... Jack starts to stand ... when a FAMILIAR SOUND makes him turn .
Hey ! Hey , wait ! Stop ! Don ' t touch that Drone ! His words are eaten up by the wind and sand . He rushes forward . WITH THE REPAIRMAN . We only see his hands as he works on Drone 166 . He ' s very good . Even in the growing sandstorm he clips out a ruined board , slots a new one in . Runs a by - pass around a wire - bundle . The Repairman ' s fingers go to a familiar switch to activate the Drone ...
No ! Wait ! The Repairman hears the voice , even as he flips the switch . He LEAPS BACK , spinning around , his carbine coming off his back , lined on Jack fifteen feet away who
Julia ! Stay back ! Jack 2 senses her movement , SPINS and AIMS his rifle as Jack rushes forward --
No ! -- He HITS JACK 2 and they both go down , the weapon FIRING ! They fight over the weapon .
STOP ! You have to understand ! You have to understand ... Jack 2 throws Jack , leaps on top of him , trying to throttle him , in a full panic . Jack drives up into his gut , rolls away .
We ' re just Drones ! We ' re just Drones , man ! You and me ! Don ' t you get it ? Don ' t you know ? Jack 2 comes at Jack wildly , emotion over - amping technique . Jack DUCKS the blow , wraps Jack 2 up in a choke - hold . SQUEEZING ...
It ' s okay . It ' s going to be okay ... Jack 2 goes limp , unconscious . Jack lets him go , staggers back . Everything finally processing . Then :
Julia ... He turns towards Julia , sees her kneeling there , holding her side . The blood seeping between her fingers ... JACK runs to her as she begins to fall . She is conscious , but just barely . But still , she PULLS BACK from him .
I ' ll be back for you .
One , Two , Three . Jack Harper . A moment ... then lights sparkle across the board .
Okay ... Let ' s go home . The Bubbleship 2 lifts off .
. Just a bit of a dust up .
I cut myself , I just came by for ...
No , I ' ll get it . He kisses her . Gentle , loving ...
I ' ll get it . You stay here . And as JACK goes into the sky tower , she returns to happily planting her roses . Oblivious .
Good bye ... He turns the Bubbleship , towards
This is gonna pinch a little .
I always thought that plateau up there could be for a house someday . I thought about remaining here , letting the rest of humanity run off to Mars . And we ' d just stay here . Jack stops himself , realizing how easily he said " we ."
No . He moves away from her , lights the fire , it starts to crackle . He gets up and goes , walking down to the lake . She stands near the fire , glad for its warmth , watching him out there , silhouetted in front of the lake . WITH JACK . He stares out over the water . Letting the truth wash over him . And then MUSIC from the grotto ... the opening bars to the Temptation ' s " My Girl ."
What was he like ?
I ' m not that man .
We can ' t stay here . She smiles , nods .
Stay here ...
The first ones were soldiers , programmed only to kill . Beech slowly , painfully , looks at him . Little emotion in Beech , just resigned recognition .
Later , there were new versions . More ... creative . The Tet needed something different . And finally there was ... you .
I ' m the weapon of this war . BEECH smiles sardonic , nods .
The Tet . The clockmaker God . Such brilliant , complex machinery ... For such a simple task . To steal our water , our life ... all for fuel .
Why didn ' t you tell me ?
Not the kind of news that . . motivates a man . Beat , then low , defeated .
We lost , Jack . It won .
The device ...?
No Drone . It will go on , devouring world , after world ...
" Cowards die many times before their deaths ; The valient never taste of death but once ." Beech ' s voice trails off ... Jack kneels in front of Beech . The old man ' s eyes are open , fixed on the artwork , the remnants of humanity ... But they don ' t blink any longer . Beech is dead . Jack reaches up , closes Beech ' s eyes . He removes the box from Beech ' s arms : The flight recorder from the odyssey .
Julia ...
Dream about us .
Bob , let ' s prep for outer atmosphere . OUTSIDE , the Bubbleship starts to transform for outer space as it RISES higher and higher ...
Finally . There you are .
I am delivering the survivor from the crash of the NASA ship . ON JACK . The Tet reflected in his eyes .
We are ... a more effective team .
Let ' s make history . FLASH . The birth of the picture of the two of them , eyes filled with anticipation . The photo in Jack ' s locker .
It ' s okay Bob , I ' m scared too . In front of him , a SLOT opens in the Tet wall .
Entering at headway speed . He flies into the Tet , carrying the POD .
Understood . Jack continues on , towards a huge DOOR .
You know , you made a mistake , Tet . You left me curious .
And right now , I want to see what you ' re made of ... Jack GUNS his ship at the large doors , OPENING UP with canons as he does . In front of him , the door IMPLODES just as Jack ' s ship reaches it , passing into ...
Do you like books , Tet !? I like books . Can I tell you something that I read ? BEHIND THE BUBBLESHIP . DRONES detach from the walls of the Tet , beginning pursuit .
It ' s a story from Rome , a very great city , that you destroyed . The Bubbleship hauls over , headed deeper into the Tet .
There was a guy named Horatius ... and he held a bridge , alone . And when they told him to run , to give up , he said -- BOOM ! A drone blast EXPLODES A whole engine of the ship . The Bubbleship goes into an uncontrollable SPIN , headed straight at a WALL ...
He said everybody dies . The thing is , to die well ... SMASH ! Jack ' s ship IMPACTS the wall , goes halfway through . The Canopy SHATTERS . Glass and debris tear at him .
. What Horatius said , what his argument was , was this ... He opens the pod , revealing ... -- BEECH ' S BODY , and on his chest the raw BOMB . The nuclear warhead from the odyssey surrounded by ten Deuterium fuel cells .
No . BEHIND HIM . The Drones blast away the last bit of the Bubbleship , push through ...
How can a man die ...
How can man die better Than facing fearful odds , For the ashes of his fathers , And the temples of his gods ... The DRONES are on him , weapons lining !
Do you hear me !!! Jack pounds the trigger with his fist . As ALL THE CLONES open their eyes . . and everything is bathed in WHITE LIGHT .
