No , forget it , it ' s too risky . I ' m through doin ' that shit .
I know that ' s what I always say . I ' m always right too , but  
  yeah , well , the days of me forgittin ' are over , and the days of me rememberin ' have just begun .
I sound like a sensible fucking man , is what I sound like .
Well take heart , ' cause you ' re never gonna hafta hear it again . Because since I ' m never gonna do it again , you ' re never gonna hafta hear me quack about how I ' m never gonna do it again .
Correct . I got all tonight to quack .
I ' m doin ' fine .
I mean the way it is now , you ' re takin ' the same fuckin ' risk as when you rob a bank . You take more of a risk . Banks are easier ! Federal banks aren ' t supposed to stop you anyway , during a robbery . They ' re insured , why should they care ? You don ' t even need a gun in a federal bank . I heard about this guy , walked into a federal bank with a portable phone , handed the phone to the teller , the guy on the other end of the phone said : " We got this guy ' s little girl , and if you don ' t give him all your money , we ' re gonna kill ' er ."
Fuckin ' A it worked , that ' s what I ' m talkin ' about ! Knucklehead walks in a bank with a telephone , not a pistol , not a shotgun , but a fuckin ' phone , cleans the place out , and they don ' t lift a fuckin ' finger .
I don ' t know . There probably never was a little girl   the point of the story isn ' t the little girl . The point of the story is they robbed the bank with a telephone .
I ' m not sayin ' I wanna rob banks , I ' m just illustrating that if we did , it would be easier than what we been doin '.
Naw , all those guys are goin ' down the same road , either dead or servin ' twenty .
What have we been talking about ? Yeah , no more - liquor - stores . Besides , it ain ' t the giggle it usta be . Too many foreigners own liquor stores . Vietnamese , Koreans , they can ' t fuckin ' speak English . You tell ' em : " Empty out the register ," and they don ' t know what it fuckin ' means . They make it too personal . We keep on , one of those gook motherfuckers ' gonna make us kill ' em .
I don ' t wanna kill anybody either . But they ' ll probably put us in a situation where it ' s us of them . And if it ' s not the gooks , it these old Jews who ' ve owned the store for fifteen fuckin ' generations . Ya got Grandpa Irving sittin ' behind the counter with a fuckin ' Magnum . Try walkin ' into one of those stores with nothin ' but a telephone , see how far it gets you . Fuck it , forget it , we ' re out of it .
Not this life .
Garcon ! Coffee !
This place .
What ' s wrong with that ? People never rob restaurants , why not ? Bars , liquor stores , gas stations , you get your head blown off stickin ' up one of them . Restaurants , on the other hand , you catch with their pants down . They ' re not expecting to get robbed , or not as expecting .
Correct . Just like banks , these places are insured . The managers don ' t give a fuck , they ' re just tryin ' to get ya out the door before you start pluggin ' diners . Waitresses , forget it , they ain ' t takin ' a bullet for the register . Busboys , some wetback gettin ' paid a dollar fifty a hour gonna really give a fuck you ' re stealin ' from the owner . Customers are sittin ' there with food in their mouths , they don ' t know what ' s goin ' on . One minute they ' re havin ' a Denver omelet , next minute somebody ' s stickin ' a gun in their face .
See , I got the idea last liquor store we stuck up . ' Member all those customers kept comin ' in ?
Then you got the idea to take everybody ' s wallet .
That was a good idea .
We made more from the wallets then we did the register .
A lot of people go to restaurants .
Pretty smart , huh ?
Remember , same as before , you ' re crowd control , I handle the employees .
I love you , Honey Bunny .
Everybody be cool this is a robbery !
  Okay now , tell me about the hash bars ?
What so you want to know ?
Well , hash is legal there , right ?
Yeah , it ' s legal , but is ain ' t a hundred percent legal . I mean you can ' t walk into a restaurant , roll a joint , and start puffin ' away . You ' re only supposed to smoke in your home or certain designated places .
Those are hash bars ?
Yeah , it breaks down like this : it ' s legal to buy it , it ' s legal to own it and , if you ' re the proprietor of a hash bar , it ' s legal to sell it . It ' s legal to carry it , which doesn ' t really matter ' cause   get a load of this   if the cops stop you , it ' s illegal for this to search you . Searching you is a right that the cops in Amsterdam don ' t have .
That did it , man   I ' m fuckin ' goin ', that ' s all there is to it .
You ' ll dig it the most . But you know what the funniest thing about Europe is ?
What ?
It ' s the little differences . A lotta the same shit we got here , they got there , but there they ' re a little different .
Examples ?
Well , in Amsterdam , you can buy beer in a movie theatre . And I don ' t mean in a paper cup either . They give you a glass of beer , like in a bar . In Paris , you can buy beer at MacDonald ' s . Also , you know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in Paris ?
They don ' t call it a Quarter Pounder with Cheese ?
No , they got the metric system there , they wouldn ' t know what the fuck a Quarter Pounder is .
What ' d they call it ?
Royale with Cheese .
Royale with Cheese . What ' d they call a Big Mac ?
Big Mac ' s a Big Mac , but they call it Le Big Mac .
Le Big Mac . What do they call a Whopper ?
I dunno , I didn ' t go into a Burger King . But you know what they put on french fries in Holland instead of ketchup ?
What ?
Mayonnaise .
Goddamn !
I seen ' em do it . And I don ' t mean a little bit on the side of the plate , they fuckin ' drown ' em in it .
Uuccch !
We should have shotguns for this kind of deal .
How many up there ?
Three or four .
Counting our guy ?
I ' m not sure .
So there could be five guys up there ?
It ' s possible .
We should have fuckin ' shotguns .
What ' s her name ?
Mia .
How did Marsellus and her meet ?
I dunno , however people meet people . She usta be an actress .
She ever do anything I woulda saw ?
I think her biggest deal was she starred in a pilot .
What ' s a pilot ?
Well , you know the shows on TV ?
I don ' t watch TV .
Yes , but you ' re aware that there ' s an invention called television , and on that invention they show shows ?
Yeah .
Well , the way they pick the shows on TV is they make one show , and that show ' s called a pilot . And they show that one show to the people who pick the shows , and on the strength of that one show , they decide if they want to make more shows . Some get accepted and become TV programs , and some don ' t , and become nothing . She starred in one of the ones that became nothing .
You remember Antwan Rockamora ? Half - black , half - Samoan , usta call him Tony Rocky Horror .
Yeah maybe , fat right ?
I wouldn ' t go so far as to call the brother fat . He ' s got a weight problem . What ' s the nigger gonna do , he ' s Samoan .
I think I know who you mean , what about him ?
Well , Marsellus fucked his ass up good . And word around the campfire , it was on account of Marsellus Wallace ' s wife .
What ' d he do , fuck her ?
No no no no no no no , nothin ' that bad .
Well what then ?
He gave her a foot massage .
A foot massage ?
That ' s all ?
What did Marsellus do ?
Sent a couple of guys over to his place . They took him out on the patio of his apartment , threw his ass over the balcony . Nigger fell four stories . They had this garden at the bottom , enclosed in glass , like one of them greenhouses   nigger fell through that . Since then , he ' s kinda developed a speech impediment .
That ' s a damn shame .
Still I hafta say , play with matches , ya get burned .
Whaddya mean ?
You don ' t be givin ' Marsellus Wallace ' s new bride a foot massage .
You don ' t think he overreacted ?
Antwan probably didn ' t expect Marsellus to react like he did , but he had to expect a reaction .
It was a foot massage , a foot massage is nothing , I give my mother a foot massage .
It ' s laying hands on Marsellus Wallace ' s new wife in a familiar way . Is it as bad as eatin ' her out   no , but you ' re in the same fuckin ' ballpark .
Whoa ... whoa ... whoa ... stop right there . Eatin ' a bitch out , and givin ' a bitch a foot massage ain ' t even the same fuckin ' thing .
Not the same thing , the same ballpark .
It ain ' t no ballpark either . Look maybe your method of massage differs from mine , but touchin ' his lady ' s feet , and stickin ' your tongue in her holyiest of holyies , ain ' t the same ballpark , ain ' t the same league , ain ' t even the same fuckin ' sport . Foot massages don ' t mean shit .
Have you ever given a foot massage ?
Don ' t be tellin ' me about foot massages   I ' m the foot fuckin ' master .
Given a lot of ' em ?
Shit yeah . I got my technique down man , I don ' t tickle or nothin '.
Have you ever given a guy a foot massage ?
Fuck you .
How many ?
Fuck you .
Would you give me a foot massage   I ' m kinda tired .
Man , you best back off , I ' m gittin ' pissed   this is the door .
What time is it ?
Seven - twenty - two in the morning .
It ain ' t quite time , let ' s hang back .
Look , just because I wouldn ' t give no man a foot massage , don ' t make it right for Marsellus to throw Antwan off a building into a glass - motherfuckin - house , fuckin ' up the way the nigger talks . That ain ' t right , man . Motherfucker do that to me , he better paralyze my ass , ' cause I ' d kill ' a motherfucker .
I ' m not sayin ' he was right , but you ' re sayin ' a foot massage don ' t mean nothing , and I ' m sayin ' it does . I ' ve given a million ladies a million foot massages and they all meant somethin '. We act like they don ' t , but they do . That ' s what ' s so fuckin ' cool about ' em . This sensual thing ' s goin ' on that nobody ' s talkin about , but you know it and she knows it , fuckin ' Marsellus knew it , and Antwan shoulda known fuckin ' better . That ' s his fuckin ' wife , man . He ain ' t gonna have a sense of humor about that shit .
That ' s an interesting point , but let ' s get into character .
What ' s her name again ?
Mia . Why you so interested in big man ' s wife ?
Well , Marsellus is leavin ' for Florida and when he ' s gone , he wants me to take care of Mia .
Take care of her ?
Not that ! Take her out . Show her a good time . Don ' t let her get lonely .
You ' re gonna be takin ' Mia Wallace out on a date ?
It ain ' t a date . It ' s like when you and your buddy ' s wife go to a movie or somethin '. It ' s just ... you know ... good company .
It ' s not a date .
Hey kids .
How you boys doin '?
Am I trippin ', or did I just ask you a question .
We ' re doin ' okay .
Do you know who we are ?
We ' re associates of your business partner Marsellus Wallace , you remember your business partner dont ' ya ?
Now I ' m gonna take a wild guess here : you ' re Brett , right ?
I ' m Brett .
I thought so . Well , you remember your business partner Marsellus Wallace , dont ' ya Brett ?
I remember him .
Good for you . Looks like me and Vincent caught you at breakfast , sorry ' bout that . What ' cha eatin '?
Hamburgers .
Hamburgers . The cornerstone of any nutritious breakfast . What kinda hamburgers ?
Cheeseburgers .
No , I mean where did you get ' em ? MacDonald ' s , Wendy ' s , Jack - in - the - Box , where ?
Big Kahuna Burger .
Big Kahuna Burger . That ' s that Hawaiian burger joint . I heard they got some tasty burgers . I ain ' t never had one myself , how are they ?
They ' re good .
Mind if I try one of yours ?
No .
Yours is this one , right ?
Yeah .
Uuummmm , that ' s a tasty burger . Vince , you ever try a Big Kahuna Burger ?
No .
You wanna bite , they ' re real good .
I ain ' t hungry .
Well , if you like hamburgers give ' em a try sometime . Me , I can ' t usually eat ' em ' cause my girlfriend ' s a vegetarian . Which more or less makes me a vegetarian , but I sure love the taste of a good burger . You know what they call a Quarter Pounder with Cheese in France ?
No .
Tell ' em , Vincent .
Royale with Cheese .
Royale with Cheese , you know why they call it that ?
Because of the metric system ?
Check out the big brain on Brett . You ' a smart motherfucker , that ' s right . The metric system . food drink cup ) What ' s in this ?
Sprite .
Sprite , good , mind if I have some of your tasty beverage to wash this down with ?
Sure .
Uuuuummmm , hit ' s the spot ! You , Flock of Seagulls , you know what we ' re here for ?
Then why don ' t you tell my boy here Vince , where you got the shit hid .
  I don ' t remember askin ' you a goddamn thing . You were sayin '?
Got it .
We happy ?
Vincent !
We happy ?
We ' re happy .
Look , what ' s your name ? I got his name ' s Vincent , but what ' s yours ?
My name ' s Pitt , and you ain ' t talkin ' your ass outta this shit .
I just want you to know how sorry we are about how fucked up things got between us and Mr . Wallace . When we entered into this thing , we only had the best intentions  
Oh , I ' m sorry . Did that break your concentration ? I didn ' t mean to do that . Please , continue . I believe you were saying something about " best intentions ."
Whatsamatter ? Oh , you were through anyway . Well , let me retort . Would you describe for me what Marsellus Wallace looks like ?
What country you from !
What ?
" What " ain ' t no country I know ! Do they speak English in " What ?"
What ?
English - motherfucker - can - you - speak - it ?
Yes .
Then you understand what I ' m sayin '?
Yes .
Now describe what Marsellus Wallace looks like !
What ?
Say " What " again ! C ' mon , say " What " again ! I dare ya , I double dare ya motherfucker , say " What " one more goddamn time !
Now describe to me what Marsellus Wallace looks like !
Well he ' s ... he ' s ... black  
  go on !
... and he ' s ... he ' s ... bald  
  does he look like a bitch ?!
What ?
Does - he - look - like - a - bitch ?!
No .
Then why did you try to fuck ' im like a bitch ?!
I didn ' t .
Yes ya did Brett . Ya tried ta fuck ' im . You ever read the Bible , Brett ?
Yes .
There ' s a passage I got memorized , seems appropriate for this situation : Ezekiel 25 : 17 . " The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men . Blessed is he who , in the name of charity and good will , shepherds the weak through the valley of darkness , for he is truly his brother ' s keeper and the finder of lost children . And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers . And you will know my name is the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you ."
I got no problem with that .
In the fifth , my ass goes down .
Where ' s the big man ?
How ' bout a cup of just plain lo ' American ?
At Marsellus ' request .
Not yet .
What ' s so funny ?
Look , I ' m not a idiot . She ' s the big man ' s fuckin ' wife . I ' m gonna sit across a table , chew my food with my mouth closed , laugh at her jokes and that ' s all I ' m gonna do .
Can I get a pack ' a Red Apples ?
Non .
Lookin ' at somethin ', friend ?
I ain ' t your friend , palooka .
What was that ?
I think ya heard me just fine , punchy .
Excuse me , sorry to interrupt . I ' m curious , why would you get a stud in your tongue ?
Vince , you can come in now !
Now this is Panda , from Mexico . Very good stuff . This is Bava , different , but equally good . And this is Choco from the Hartz Mountains of Germany . Now the first two are the same , forty - five an ounce   those are friend prices   but this one ... ... this one ' s a little more expensive . It ' s fifty - five . But when you shoot it , you ' ll know where that extra money went . Nothing wrong with the first two . It ' s real , real , real , good shit . But this one ' s a fuckin ' madman .
Remember , I just got back from Amsterdam .
Am I a nigger ? Are you in Inglewood ? No . You ' re in my house . White people who know the difference between good shit and bad shit , this is the house they come to . My shit , I ' ll take the Pepsi Challenge with Amsterdam shit any ol ' day of the fuckin ' week .
That ' s a bold statement .
This ain ' t Amsterdam , Vince . This is a seller ' s market . Coke is fuckin ' dead as disco . Heroin ' s comin ' back in a big fuckin ' way . It ' s this whole seventies retro . Bell bottoms , heroin , they ' re as hot as hell .
Give me three hundred worth of the madman . If it ' s as good as you say , I ' ll be back for a thousand .
I just hope I still have it . Whaddya think of Trudi ? She ain ' t got a boyfriend , wanna hand out an ' get high ?
Which one ' s Trudi ? The one with all the shit in her face ?
No , that ' s Jody . That ' s my wife .
I ' m on my way somewhere . I got a dinner engagement . Rain check ?
No problem ?
You don ' t mind if I shoot up here ?
Me casa , su casa .
Mucho gracias .
Still got your Malibu ?
You know what some fucker did to it the other day ?
What ?
Fuckin ' keyed it .
Oh man , that ' s fucked up .
Tell me about it . I had the goddamn thing in storage three years . It ' s out five fuckin ' days   five days , and some dickless piece of shit fucks with it .
They should be fuckin ' killed . No trial , no jury , straight to execution .
I just wish I caught ' em doin ' it , ya know ? Oh man , I ' d give anything to catch ' em doin ' it . It ' a been worth his doin ' it , if I coulda just caught ' em , you know what I mean ?
It ' s chicken shit . You don ' t fuck another man ' s vehicle .
Hello ?
Hello .
Hello .
Okay .
What the fuck is this place ?
Come on , Mia , let ' s go get a steak .
After you , kitty - cat .
I ' ll have the Douglas Sirk steak .
Bloody as hell . And to drink , a vanilla coke .
Did you just order a five - dollar shake ?
A shake ? Milk and ice cream ?
It costs five dollars ?
You don ' t put bourbon in it or anything ?
Just checking .
It ' s like a wax museum with a pulse rate .
Rollin ' a smoke .
It ' s just tobacco .
You can have this one , cowgirl .
Think nothing of it .
Sure did . I heard you did a pilot .
What was it ?
What ?
What was your specialty ?
Do you remember any of the jokes ?
Tell me .
C ' mon , don ' t be that way .
You told it in front of fifty million people and you can ' t tell it to me ? I promise I won ' t laugh .
That ' s not what I meant and you know it .
I meant I wouldn ' t laugh at you .
What a gyp .
Can I have a sip of that ? I ' d like to know what a five - dollar shake tastes like .
Yeah , but maybe I do .
Goddamn ! That ' s a pretty fuckin ' good milk shake .
I don ' t know if it ' s worth five dollars , but it ' s pretty fuckin ' good .
What ?
I don ' t know .
I don ' t think we ' re there yet . But don ' t feel bad , we just met each other .
I ' ll do that .
We ' re lucky we got it at all . Buddy Holly doesn ' t seem to be much of a waiter . We shoulda sat in Marilyn Monroe ' s section .
No there ' s not .
That ' s Marilyn Monroe ...
... and that ' s Mamie Van Doren . I don ' t see Jayne Mansfield , so it must be her night off .
I have moments .
Actually , there ' s something I ' ve wanted to ask you about , but you seem like a nice person , and I didn ' t want to offend you .
Only if you promise not to get offended .
Then let ' s just forget it .
Is that a fact ?
What do you think about what happened to Antwan ?
Tony Rocky Horror .
That ' s one way to say it . Another way is , he was thrown out . Another was is , he was thrown out by Marsellus . And even another way is , he was thrown out of a window by Marsellus because of you .
No it ' s not , it ' s just what I heard .
They .
They certainly do .
No . They just said Rocky Horror gave you a foot massage .
No and , that ' s it .
Yeah .
At the time I was told , it seemed reasonable .
No , it seemed excessive . But that doesn ' t mean it didn ' t happen . I heard Marsellus is very protective of you .
But did it happen ?
No , no , no no , no , no , no , no .
All right .
All right , you asked for it .
Was than an uncomfortable silence ?
I ' m gonna take a piss .
One drink and leave . Don ' t be rude , but drink your drink quickly , say goodbye , walk out the door , get in your car , and go down the road .
... It ' s a moral test of yourself , whether or not you can maintain loyalty . Because when people are loyal to each other , that ' s very meaningful .
So you ' re gonna go out there , drink your drink , say " Goodnight , I ' ve had a very lovely evening ," go home , and jack off . And that ' s all you ' re gonna do .
Jesus Christ !
Mia ! MIA ! What the hell happened ?
I ' ll be a son - of - a - bitch . Mia ! MIA ! What did you take ? Answer me honey , what did you take ?
Okay honey , we ' re getting you on your feet .
We ' re on our feet now , and now we ' re gonna talk out to the car . Here we go , watch us walk .
I can hear it !
I told ' em and that ' s what I ' m gonna tell this fuckin ' asshole right now ! Hello , do you know how late it is ? You ' re not supposed to be callin ' me this fuckin ' late .
Lance , this is Vincent , I ' m in big fuckin ' trouble man , I ' m on my way to your place .
Whoa , hold you horses man , what ' s the problem ?
You still got an adrenaline shot ?
Maybe .
I need it man , I got a chick she ' s fuckin ' Doing on me .
Don ' t bring her here ! I ' m not even fuckin ' joking with you , don ' t you be bringing some fucked up pooh - butt to my house !
No choice .
She ' s ODin '?
Yeah . She ' s dyin '.
Then bite the fuckin ' bullet , take ' er to a hospital and call a lawyer !
Negative .
She ain ' t my fuckin ' problem , you fucked her up , you deal with it   are you talkin ' to me on a cellular phone ?
Sorry .
I don ' t know you , who is this , don ' t come here , I ' m hangin ' up .
Too late , I ' m already here .
Have you lost your mind ?! You crashed your car in my fuckin ' house ! You talk about drug shit on a cellular fuckin ' phone  
If you ' re through havin ' your little hissy fit , this chick is dyin ', get your needle and git it now !
Are you deaf ? You ' re not bringin ' that fucked up bitch in my house !
This fucked up bitch is Marsellus Wallace ' s wife . Now if she fuckin ' croaks on me , I ' m a grease spot . But before he turns me into a bar soap , I ' m gonna be forced to tell ' im about how you coulda saved her life , but instead you let her die on your front lawn .
Get that black box in the bedroom I have with the adrenaline shot .
She ' s ODing on us .
You two are a match made in heaven .
Look , just keep talkin ' to her , okay ? While she ' s gettin ' the shot , I gotta get a medical book .
What do you need a medical book for ?
To tell me how to do it . I ' ve never given an adrenaline shot before .
You ' ve had that thing for six years and you never used it ?
I never had to use it . I don ' t go joypoppin ' with bubble - gummers , all of my friends can handle their highs !
Well then get it .
I am , if you ' ll let me .
I ' m not fuckin ' stoppin ' you .
Stop talkin ' to me , and start talkin ' to her .
Hurry up man ! We ' re losin ' her !
I ' m looking as fast as I can !
I dunno , some medical book .
My black medical book !
My black fuckin ' medical book . It ' s like a text book they give to nurses .
Trust me , I have one .
I don ' t know ! Stop bothering me !
  get your ass in here , fuck the book !
Quit fuckin ' around man and give her the shot !
While I ' m doing this , take her shirt off and find her heart .
Does it have to be exact ?
Yeah , it has to be exact ! I ' m giving her an injection in the heart , so I gotta exactly hit her in the heart .
Well , I don ' t know exactly where her heart is , I think it ' s here .
That ' s it .
I need a big fat magic marker , got one ?
I need a big fat magic marker , any felt pen ' ll do , but a magic marker would be great .
It ' s ready , I ' ll tell you what to do .
You ' re gonna give her the shot .
No , you ' re gonna give her the shot .
I ' ve never does this before .
I ' ve never done this before either , and I ain ' t starting now . You brought ' er here , that means you give her the shot . The day I bring an ODing bitch to your place , then I gotta give her the shot .
Okay , what do I do ?
Well , you ' re giving her an injection of adrenaline straight to her heart . But she ' s got a breast plate in front of her heart , so you gotta pierce through that . So what you gotta do is bring the needle down in a stabbing motion .
I gotta stab her ?
If you want the needle to pierce through to her heart , you gotta stab her hard .
What happens after that ?
I ' m curious about that myself .
This ain ' t a fuckin ' joke man !
She ' s supposed to come out of it like     that .
Count to three .
One ...
... two ...
... three !
If you ' re okay , say something .
Mia !
What are your thoughts on how to handle this ?
Well I ' m of the opinion that Marsellus can live his whole live and never ever hear of this incident .
I seriously doubt that .
Let ' s shake on it .
Mum ' s the word .
If you ' ll excuse me , I gotta go home and have a heart attack .
Sure , but I think I ' m still a little too petrified to laugh .
I can ' t wait .
I ' m ready .
If you ' re the cab I called , I ' m the guy you ' re supposed to pick up .
Outta here .
Mia . How you doin '?
Hey , how do I open the window back here ?
glove ) What ?
Whatever gave you that idea ?
a gym towel ) I ' m him .
He ' s dead ?
Sorry ' bout that , Floyd .
What does what feel like ?
Are you some kinda weirdo ?
Tell ya what , you give me one of them cigarettes , I ' ll give you an answer .
So ...
... Esmarelda Villalobos   is that Mexican ?
It ' s a very pretty name .
That ' s one hell of a name you got there , sister .
Butch .
I ' m an American , our names don ' t mean shit . Anyway , moving right along , what is it you wanna know , Esmarelda ?
  I couldn ' t tell ya . I didn ' t know he was dead ' til you told me he was dead . Now I know he ' s dead , do you wanna know how I feel about it ?
I don ' t feel the least little bit bad .
What ' d I tell ya , soon as the word got out a fix was in , the odds would be outta control . Hey , if he was a better fighter he ' s be alive . If he never laced up his gloves in the first place , which he never shoulda done , he ' d be alive . Enough about the poor unfortunate Mr . Floyd , let ' s talk about the rich and prosperous Mr . Butch . How many bookies you spread it around with ?
with English subtitles ) Fabienne my love , our adventure begins .
Merci beaucoup . And here ' s a little something for the effort .
Now if anybody should ask you about who your fare was tonight , what ' re you gonna tell ' em ?
Bon soir , Esmarelda .
Is that better , sugar pop ?
Pretty hard . I got into a fight .
Uh - huh ?
You were lookin ' in the mirror and you wish you had some pot ?
Well you should be happy , ' cause you do .
I didn ' t realize there was a difference between a tummy and a pot belly .
You want me to have a pot ?
You think guys would find that attractive ?
If you a pot belly , I ' d punch you in it .
Right in the belly .
You ' d do that to me ?
Did you get everything , sugar pop ?
Good job .
You didn ' t listen to the radio ?
I won alright .
Sure am .
Floyd retired too .
Not no more .
We ain ' t at the finish , baby .
Fabienne , I want you to be with me .
... and ever .
Oui .
Will you kiss it ?
I think I cracked a rib .
No retard , from the fight .
My name is Fabby ! My name is Fabby !
Okay , sorry , sorry , sorry , I take it back ! Can I have a towel please , Miss Beautiful Tulip .
I didn ' t call you a Mongoloid , I called you a retard , but I took it back .
Merci beaucoup .
Yes , lemon pie .
I ' m not sure yet . Wherever you want . We ' re gonna get a lot of money from this . But it ain ' t gonna be so much , we can live like hogs in the fat house forever . I was thinking we could go somewhere in the South Pacific . The kinda money we ' ll have ' ll carry us a long way down there .
You betcha . And if after awhile you don ' t dig Bora Bora , then we can move over to Tahiti or Mexico .
You don ' t speak Bora Boran either . Besides , Mexican is easy : Donde esta el zapataria ?
Where ' s the shoe store ?
Excellent pronunciation . You ' ll be my little mama ceta in no time .
What are you watching ?
Are you watchin ' it ?
Would you please ?
It ' s a little too early in the morning for explosions and war .
How should I know , you were the one watchin ' it .
Oh , I ... don ' t remember . It ' s really rare I remember a dream .
Fabienne , I ' m not lying to you , I don ' t remember .
I don ' t talk in my sleep , do I talk in my sleep ?
What did I say ?
One more kiss and I ' ll get up .
Yep .
What time is it ?
Eleven .
potential appetite ) Anything to drink with that ?
Pie for breakfast ?
  where ' s my watch ?
No , it ' s not . It ' s not here .
Yes I ' ve fuckin ' looked !!
What the fuck do you think I ' m doing ?! Are you sure you got it ?
  on the little kangaroo .
Well it ' s not here !
Oh it most definitely should be here , but it ' s not . So where is it ?
Fabienne , that was my father ' s fuckin ' watch . You know what my father went through to git me that watch ?... I don ' t wanna get into it right now ... but he went through a lot . Now all this other shit , you coulda set on fire , but I specifically reminded you not to forget my father ' s watch . Now think , did you get it ?
You believe so ? You either did , or you didn ' t , now which one is it ?
Are you sure ?
No ! It ' s not your fault . You left it at the apartment .
If you did leave it at the apartment , it ' s not your fault . I had you bring a bunch of stuff . I reminded you about it , but I didn ' t illustrate how personal the watch was to me . If all I gave a fuck about was my watch , I should ' ve told you . You ain ' t a mind reader .
Don ' t be . It just means I won ' t be able to eat breakfast with you .
Because I ' m going back to my apartment to get my watch .
That ' s what I ' m gonna find out . If they are , and I don ' t think I can handle it , I ' ll split .
Don ' t feel bad , sugar pop . Nothing you could ever do would make me permanently angry at you . I love you , remember ? out of his wallet ) Now here ' s some money , order those pancakes and have a great breakfast .
I ' ll be back before you can say , blueberry pie .
Well maybe not that fast , but fast . Okay ? Okay ?
Bye - bye , sugar pop .
I ' m gonna take your Honda .
Of all the fuckin ' things she coulda forgot , she forgets my father ' s watch . I specifically reminded her not to forget it . " Bedside table   on the kangaroo ." I said the words : " Don ' t forget my father ' s watch ."
Holy shit .
That ' s how you ' re gonna beat ' em , Butch . They keep underestimatin ' ya .
I guess .
Who ?
Well , I ' ll be damned .
Sacre bleu .
Can I help you wit ' somethin '?
Shut up !
Now you just wait one goddamn minute   Before Maynard can finish his threat , Marsellus CHARGES in . He doesn ' t get past the doorway because Butch LANDS his fist in Marsellus ' face .
So you like chasing people , huh ?
Well guess what , big man , you caught me  
Look mister , this ain ' t any of your business  
  I ' m makin ' it my business ! Now toss that gun !
Now you on top , stand up and come to the counter .
Zed ? It ' s Maynard . The spider just caught a coupl ' a flies .
Nobody kills anybody in my place of business except me or Zed .
That ' s Zed .
You said you waited for me ?
I did .
Then how come they ' re all beat up ?
They did that to each other . They was fightin ' when they came in . This one was gonna shoot that one .
You were gonna shoot him ?
Hey , is Grace gonna be okay in front of this place ?
Yeah , it ain ' t Tuesday is it ?
No , it ' s Thursday .
Then she ' ll be fine .
Bring out The Gimp .
I think The Gimp ' s sleepin '.
Well , I guess you ' ll just wake ' em up then , won ' t you ?
Wake up !
Down !
Who ' s first ?
I ain ' t fer sure yet .
Wanna do it here ?
Naw , drag big boy to Russell ' s old room .
Up !
Keep an eye on this one .
Hey hillbilly .
You want that gun , Zed ? Pick it up .
You okay ?
Naw man . I ' m pretty fuckin ' far from okay !
What now ?
What now ? Well let me tell you what now . I ' m gonna call a couple pipe - hittin ' niggers , who ' ll go to work on homes here with a pair of pliers and a blow torch . Hear me talkin ' hillbilly boy ?! I ain ' t through with you by a damn sight . I ' m gonna git Medieval on your ass .
I meant what now , between me and you ?
Oh , that what now ? Well , let me tell ya what now between me an ' you . There is no me an ' you . Not no more .
So we ' re cool ?
Yeah man , we ' re cool . One thing I ask   two things I ask : Don ' t tell nobody about this . This shit ' s between me and you and the soon - to - be - livin '- the - rest - of - his - short - ass - life - in - agonizing - pain , Mr . Rapist here . It ain ' t nobody else ' s business . Two : leave town . Tonight . Right now . And when you ' re gone , stay gone . You ' ve lost your Los Angeles privileges . Deal ?
Deal .
Go on now , get your ass outta here .
Hello Mr . Wolf , it ' s Marsellus . Gotta bit of a situation .
Honey , grab your radio and your purse and let ' s go !
Fuck the bags . We ' ll miss our train if we don ' t split now .
We ' re cool . In fact , we ' re super - cool . But we gots to go . I ' ll wait for you outside .
It ' s a chopper , baby , hop on .
Sorry baby , I crashed the Honda .
I might ' ve broke my nose , no biggie . Hop on .
Honey , we gotta hit the fuckin ' road !
I ' m sorry , baby - love .
I ' m sorry I worried you , sweetie . Everything ' s fine . Hey , how was breakfast ?
  did you get the blueberry pancakes ?
Baby - love , from the moment I left you , this has been without a doubt the single weirdest day of my entire life . Climb on an ' I ' ll tell ya about it .
It ' s a chopper .
Zed ' s .
Zed ' s dead , baby , Zed ' s dead .
Friend of yours ?
Why the fuck didn ' t you tell us about that guy in the bathroom ? Slip your mind ? Forget he was in there with a goddamn hand cannon ?
We should be fuckin ' dead right now . Did you see that gun he fired at us ? It was bigger than him .
. 357 . We should be fuckin ' dead !
Yeah , we were lucky .
That shit wasn ' t luck . That shit was somethin ' else .
Yeah , maybe .
That was ... divine intervention . You know what divine intervention is ?
Yeah , I think so . That means God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets .
Yeah , man , that ' s what is means . That ' s exactly what it means ! God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets .
I think we should be going now .
Don ' t do that ! Don ' t you fuckin ' do that ! Don ' t blow this shit off ! What just happened was a fuckin ' miracle !
Chill the fuck out , Jules , this shit happens .
Wrong , wrong , this shit doesn ' t just happen .
Do you wanna continue this theological discussion in the car , or at the jailhouse with the cops ?
We should be fuckin ' dead now , my friend ! We just witnessed a miracle , and I want you to fuckin ' acknowledge it !
Okay man , it was a miracle , can we leave now ?
... Ever seen that show " COPS ?" I was watchin ' it once and this cop was on it who was talkin ' about this time he got into this gun fight with a guy in a hallway . He unloads on this guy and he doesn ' t hit anything . And these guys were in a hallway . It ' s a freak , but it happens .
If you wanna play blind man , then go walk with a Shepherd . But me , my eyes are wide fuckin ' open .
What the fuck does that mean ?
That ' s it for me . For here on in , you can consider my ass retired .
Jesus Christ !
Don ' t blaspheme !
Goddammit , Jules  
  I said don ' t do that  
  you ' re fuckin ' freakin ' out !
I ' m tellin ' Marsellus today I ' m through .
While you ' re at it , be sure to tell ' im why .
Don ' t worry , I will .
I ' ll bet ya ten thousand dollars , he laughs his ass off .
I don ' t give a damn if he does .
Marvin , what do you make of all this ?
C ' mon , Marvin . Do you think God came down from Heaven and stopped the bullets ?
What the fuck ' s happening ?
I just accidentally shot Marvin in the throat .
Why the fuck did you do that ?
I didn ' t mean to do it . I said it was an accident .
I ' ve seen a lot of crazy - ass shit in my time  
  chill out , man , it was an accident , okay ? You hit a bump or somethin ' and the gun went off .
The car didn ' t hit no motherfuckin ' bump !
Look ! I didn ' t mean to shoot this son - ofa - bitch , the gun just went off , don ' t ask me how !
Look at this mess ! We ' re drivin ' around on a city street in broad daylight  
  I know , I know , I wasn ' t thinkin ' about the splatter .
Well you better be thinkin ' about it now , motherfucker ! We gotta get this car off the road . Cops tend to notice shit like you ' re driving a car drenched in fuckin ' blood .
Can ' t we just take it to a friendly place ?
This is the Valley , Vincent . Marsellus don ' t got no friendly places in the Valley .
Well , don ' t look at me , this is your town , Jules .
Who ya callin '?
A buddy of mine in Toluca Lake .
Where ' s Toluca Lake .
On the other side of the hill , by Burbank Studios . If Jimmie ' s ass ain ' t home , I don ' t know what the fuck we ' re gonna go . I ain ' t got any other partners in 818 . Jimmie ! How you doin ' man , it ' s Jules . Listen up man , me an ' my homeboy are in some serious shit . We ' re in a car we gotta get off the road , pronto ! I need to use your garage for a couple hours .
We gotta be real fuckin ' delicate with this Jimmie ' s situation . He ' s one remark away from kickin ' our asses out the door .
If he kicks us out , whadda we do ?
Well , we ain ' t leavin ' ' til we made a couple phone calls . But I never want it to reach that pitch . Jimmie ' s my friend and you don ' t bust in your friend ' s house and start tellin ' ' im what ' s what .
Just tell ' im not to be abusive . He kinda freaked out back there when he saw Marvin .
Put yourself in his position . It ' s eight o ' clock in the morning . He just woke up , he wasn ' t prepared for this shit . Don ' t forget who ' s doin ' who a favor .
If the price of that favor is I gotta take shit , he can stick his favor straight up his ass .
What the fuck did you just do to his towel ?
I was just dryin ' my hands .
You ' re supposed to wash ' em first .
You watched me wash ' em .
I watched you get ' em wet .
I washed ' em . Blood ' s real hard to get off . Maybe if he had some Lava , I coulda done a better job .
I used the same soap you did and when I dried my hands , the towel didn ' t look like a fuckin ' Maxie pad . Look , fuck it , alright . Who cares ? But it ' s shit like this that ' s gonna bring this situation to a boil . If he were to come in here and see that towel like that ... I ' m tellin ' you Vincent , you best be cool . ' Cause if I gotta get in to it with Jimmie on account of you ... Look , I ain ' t threatenin ' you , I respect you an ' all , just don ' t put me in that position .
Jules , you ask me nice like that , no problem . He ' s your friend , you handle him .
Goddamn Jimmie , this is some serious gourmet shit . Me an ' Vincent woulda been satisfied with freeze - dried Tasters Choice . You spring this gourmet fuckin ' shit on us . What flavor is this ?
What ?
Jimmie  
Naw man , I didn ' t .
Why ?
Jimmie  
That ' s all we want . We don ' t wanna fuck up your shit . We just need to call our people to bring us in .
... well , say she comes home . Whaddya think she ' ll do ? No fuckin ' shit she ' ll freak . That ain ' t no kinda answer . You know ' er , I don ' t . How bad , a lot or a little ?
You got to appreciate what an explosive element this Bonnie situation is . If she comes home from a hard day ' s work and finds a bunch of gangsters doin ' a bunch of gangsta ' shit in her kitchen , ain ' t no tellin ' what she ' s apt to do .
I ' ve grasped that , Jules . All I ' m doin ' is contemplating the " ifs ."
I don ' t wanna hear about no motherfuckin ' " ifs ." What I wanna hear from your ass is : " you ain ' t got no problems , Jules . I ' m on the motherfucker . Go back in there , chill them niggers out and wait for the cavalry , which should be comin ' directly ."
You ain ' t got no problems , Jules . I ' m on the motherfucker . Go back in there , chill them niggers out and wait for The Wolf , who should be comin ' directly .
You sendin ' The Wolf ?
Feel better ?
Shit Negro , that ' s all you had to say .
Is she the hysterical type ? When she due ? Give me the principals ' names again ? Jules ...
... Vincent ... Jimmie ... Bonnie ...
Expect a call around 10 : 30 . It ' s about thirty minutes away . I ' ll be there in ten .
You ' re Jimmie , right ? This is your house ?
I ' m Winston Wolf , I solve problems .
So I heard . May I come in ?
You must be Jules , which would make you Vincent . Let ' s get down to brass tacks , gentlemen . If I was informed correctly , the clock is ticking , is that right , Jimmie ?
Your wife , Bonnie ... ... comes home at 9 : 30 in the AM , is that correct ?
I was led to believe if she comes home and finds us here , she wouldn ' t appreciate it none too much .
That gives us forty minutes to get the fuck outta Dodge , which , if you do what I say when I say it , should by plenty . Now you got a corpse in a car , minus a head , in a garage . Take me to it .
Jimmie ?
Do me a favor , will ya ? Thought I smelled some coffee in there . Would you make me a cup ?
Lotsa cream , lotsa sugar .
About the car , is there anything I need to know ? Does it stall , does it make a lot of noise , does it smoke , is there gas in it , anything ?
Aside from how it looks , the car ' s cool .
Positive ? Don ' t get me out on the road and I find out the brake lights don ' t work .
Hey man , as far as I know , the motherfucker ' s tip - top .
Good enough , let ' s go back to the kitchen .
Thank you , Jimmie .
Okay first thing , you two . Vincent ) Take the body , stick it in the trunk . Now Jimmie , this looks to be a pretty domesticated house . That would lead me to believe that in the garage or under the sink , you got a bunch of cleansers and cleaners and shit like that , am I correct ?
Good . What I need you two fellas to do is take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car . And I ' m talkin ' fast , fast , fast . You need to go in the backseat , scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull . Get it out of there . Wipe down the upholstery   now when it comes to upholstery , it don ' t need to be spic and span , you don ' t need to eat off it . Give it a good once over . What you need to take care of are the really messy parts . The pools of blood that have collected , you gotta soak that shit up . But the windows are a different story . Them you really clean . Get the Windex , do a good job . Now Jimmie , we need to raid your linen closet . I need blankets , I need comforters , I need quilts , I need bedspreads . The thicker the better , the darker the better . No whites , can ' t use ' em . We need to camouflage the interior of the car . We ' re gonna line the front seat and the backseat and the floor boards with quilts and blankets . If a cop stops us and starts stickin ' his big snout in the car , the subterfuge won ' t last . But at a glance , the car will appear to be normal . Jimmie   lead the way , boys   get to work .
A " please " would be nice .
Come again ?
I said a " please " would be nice .
Set is straight , Buster . I ' m not here to say " please ." I ' m here to tell you want to do . And if self - preservation is an instinct you possess , you better fuckin ' do it and do it quick . I ' m here to help . If my help ' s not appreciated , lotsa luck gentlemen .
It ain ' t that way , Mr . Wolf . Your help is definitely appreciated .
I don ' t mean any disrespect . I just don ' t like people barkin ' orders at me .
If I ' m curt with you , it ' s because time is a factor . I think fast , I talk fast , and I need you guys to act fast if you want to get out of this . So pretty please , with sugar on top , clean the fuckin ' car .
It ' s a 1974 Chevy Nova . White . Nothin ', except for the mess inside . About twenty minutes . Nobody who ' ll be missed . You ' re a good man , Joe . See ya soon . How we comin ', Jimmie ?
  Winston , Jimmie   please , Winston .
  let me ask you a question , if you don ' t mind ?
Were you Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny millionaires ?
Well , your Uncle Marsellus is . And I ' m positive if Uncle Conrad and Aunt Ginny were millionaires , they would ' ve furnished you with a whole bedroom set , which your Uncle Marsellus is more than happy to do . bills ) I like oak myself , that ' s what ' s in my bedroom . How ' bout you Jimmie , you an oak man ?
I will never forgive your ass for this shit . This is some fucked - up repugnant shit !
Did you ever hear the philosophy that once a man admits he ' s wrong , he ' s immediately forgiven for all wrong - doings ?
Man , get outta my face with that shit ! The motherfucker who said that never had to pick up itty - bitty pieces of skull with his fingers on account of your dumb ass .
I got a threshold , Jules . I got a threshold for the abuse I ' ll take . And you ' re crossin ' it . I ' m a race car and you got me in the red . Redline 7000 , that ' s where you are . Just know , it ' s fuckin ' dangerous to be drivin ' a race car when it ' s in the red . It could blow .
You ' re gettin ' ready to blow ? I ' m a mushroom - cloud - layin ' motherfucker ! Every time my fingers touch brain I ' m " SUPERFLY T . N . T ," I ' m the " GUNS OF NAVARONE ." I ' m what Jimmie Walker usta talk about . In fact , what the fuck am I doin ' in the back ? You ' re the motherfucker should be on brain detail . We ' re tradin '. I ' m washin ' windows and you ' re pickin ' up this nigger ' s skull .
Fine job , gentlemen . We may get out of this yet .
Well , let ' s not start suckin ' each other ' s dicks quite yet . Phase one is complete , clean the car , which moves us right along to phase two , clean you two .
Strip .
All the way ?
To your bare ass .
Quickly gentlemen , we got about fifteen minutes before Jimmie ' s better - half comes pulling into the driveway .
This morning air is some chilly shit .
Are you sure this is absolutely necessary ?
You know what you two look like ?
What ?
Like a couple of guys who just blew off somebody ' s head . Yes , strippin ' off those bloody rags is absolutely necessary . Toss the clothes in Jim ' s garbage bag .
Now Jimmie , don ' t do nothin ' stupid like puttin ' that out in front of your house for Elmo the garbage man to take away .
Don ' t worry , we ' re takin ' it with us . Jim , the soap .
Okay gentlemen , you ' re both been to County before , I ' m sure . Here it comes .
Goddamn , that water ' s fuckin ' cold !
Better you than me , gentlemen .
Don ' t be afraid of the soap , spread it around .
Towel ' em .
You ' re dry enough , give ' em their clothes .
Perfect . Perfect . We couldn ' t ' ve planned this better . You guys look like ... what do they look like , Jimmie ?
Ha ha ha . They ' re your clothes , motherfucker .
Yeah , well , our asses ain ' t the expert on wearin ' dorky shit that your is .
C ' mon , gentlemen , we ' re laughin ' and jokin ' our way into prison . Don ' t make me beg .
Gentlemen , let ' s get our rules of the road straight . We ' re going to a place called Monster Joe ' s Truck and Tow . Monster Joe and his daughter Raquel are sympathetic to out dilemma . The place is North Hollywood , so a few twist and turns aside , we ' ll be goin ' up Hollywood Way . Now I ' ll drive the tainted car . Jules , you ride with me . Vincent , you follow in my Porsche . Now if we cross the path of any John Q . Laws , nobody does a fuckin ' thing ' til I do something .
Don ' t do shit unless  
  unless what ?
Unless you do it first .
Spoken like a true prodigy . How ' bout you , Lash Larue ? Can you keep your spurs from jingling and jangling ?
I ' m cool , Mr . Wolf . My gun just went off , I dunno how .
Fair enough . car keys ) I drive real fuckin ' fast , so keep up . If I get my car back any different than I gave it , Monster Joe ' s gonna be disposing of two bodies .
We cool ?
Redondo Beach .
Inglewood .
Mr . Wolf .
I was a pleasure watchin ' you work .
Wanna share a cab ?
You know I could go for some breakfast . Want to have breakfast with me ?
Sure .
Thanks a bunch . nursing his coffee ) Want a sausage ?
Naw , I don ' t eat pork .
Are you Jewish ?
I ain ' t Jewish man , I just don ' t dig on swine .
Why not ?
They ' re filthy animals . I don ' t eat filthy animals .
Sausages taste good . Pork chops taste good .
A sewer rat may taste like pumpkin pie . I ' ll never know ' cause even if it did , I wouldn ' t eat the filthy motherfucker . Pigs sleep and root in shit . That ' s a filthy animal . I don ' t wanna eat nothin ' that ain ' t got enough sense to disregard its own feces .
How about dogs ? Dogs eat their own feces .
I don ' t eat dog either .
Yes , but do you consider a dog to be a filthy animal ?
I wouldn ' t go so far as to call a dog filthy , but they ' re definitely dirty . But a dog ' s got personality . And personality goes a long way .
So by that rationale , if a pig had a better personality , he ' s cease to be a filthy animal ?
We ' d have to be talkin ' ' bout one motherfuckin ' charmin ' pig . It ' d have to be the Cary Grant of pigs .
Good for you . Lighten up a little . You been sittin ' there all quiet .
I just been sittin ' here thinkin '.
About what ?
The miracle we witnessed .
The miracle you witnessed . I witnessed a freak occurrence .
Do you know that a miracle is ?
An act of God .
What ' s an act of God ?
I guess it ' s when God makes the impossible possible . And I ' m sorry Jules , but I don ' t think what happened this morning qualifies .
Don ' t you see , Vince , that shit don ' t matter . You ' re judging this thing the wrong way . It ' s not about what . It could be God stopped the bullets , he changed Coke into Pepsi , he found my fuckin ' car keys . You don ' t judge shit like this based on merit . Whether or not what we experienced was an according - to - Hoyle miracle is insignificant . What is significant is I felt God ' s touch , God got involved .
But why ?
That ' s what ' s fuckin ' wit ' me ! I don ' t know why . But I can ' t go back to sleep .
So you ' re serious , you ' re really gonna quit ?
The life , most definitely .
So if you ' re quitting the life , what ' ll you do ?
That ' s what I ' ve been sitting here contemplating . First , I ' m gonna deliver this case to Marsellus . Then , basically , I ' m gonna walk the earth .
What do you mean , walk the earth ?
You know , like Caine in " KUNG FU ." Just walk from town to town , meet people , get in adventures .
How long do you intend to walk the earth ?
Until God puts me where he want me to be .
What if he never does ?
If it takes forever , I ' ll wait forever .
So you decided to be a bum ?
I ' ll just be Jules , Vincent   no more , no less .
No Jules , you ' re gonna be like those pieces of shit out there who beg for change . They walk around like a bunch of fuckin ' zombies , they sleep in garbage bins , they eat what I throw away , and dogs piss on ' em . They got a word for ' em , they ' re called bums . And without a job , residence , or legal tender , that ' s what you ' re gonna be   a fuckin ' bum !
Look my friend , this is just where me and you differ  
  what happened was peculiar   no doubt about it   but it wasn ' t water into wine .
All shapes and sizes , Vince .
Stop fuckin ' talkin ' like that !
If you find my answers frightening , Vincent , you should cease askin ' scary questions .
I gotta take a shit . To be continued .
Everybody be cool , this is a robbery !
Customers stay seated , waitresses on the floor .
You Mexicans in the kitchen , get out here ! Asta luego !
On the floor or I ' ll cook you ass , comprende ?
You ' re gonna give me a problem ?
What ? You said you ' re gonna give me a problem ?
I don ' t know , Honey Bunny . He looks like the hero type to me !
Tell everyone to cooperate and it ' ll be all over .
Well done , now git your fuckin ' ass on the ground .
Okay people , I ' m going to go ' round and collect your wallets . Don ' t talk , just toss ' em in the bag . We clear ?
In the bag .
What ' s in that ?
My boss ' dirty laundry .
You boss makes you do his laundry ?
When he wants it clean .
Sounds like a shit job .
Funny , I ' ve been thinkin ' the same thing .
Open it up .
' Fraid I can ' t do that .
I didn ' t hear you .
Yes , you did .
Looks like we got a vigilante in our midst .
I don ' t mean to shatter your ego , but this ain ' t the first time I ' ve had gun pointed at me .
You don ' t open up that case , it ' s gonna be the last .
Keep your fuckin ' mouth closed , fat man , this ain ' t any of your goddamn business !
I ' m countin ' to three , and if your hand ain ' t off that case , I ' m gonna unload right in your fuckin ' face . Clear ? One ...
... two ... three .
You win .
It ' s all yours , Ringo .
Open it .
Is that what I think it is ?
It ' s beautiful .
Tell that bitch to be cool ! Say , bitch be cool ! Say , bitch be cool !
Chill out , honey !
Tell her it ' s gonna be okay .
I ' m gonna be okay .
Promise her .
I promise .
Tell her to chill .
Just chill out .
What ' s her name ?
Yolanda .
So , we cool Yolanda ? We ain ' t gonna do anything stupid , are we ?
Nobody ' s gonna hurt anybody . We ' re gonna be like three Fonzies . And what ' Fonzie like ?
C ' mon Yolanda , what ' s Fonzie like ?
Correct - amundo ! And that ' s what we ' re gonna be , we ' re gonna be cool . Now Ringo , I ' m gonna count to three and I want you to let go your gun and lay your palms flat on the table . But when you do it , do it cool . Ready ?
One ... two ... three .
Yolanda , I thought you were gonna be cool . When you yell at me , it makes me nervous . When I get nervous , I get scared . And when motherfuckers get scared , that ' s when motherfuckers get accidentally shot .
That seems to be the situation . Now I don ' t want that and you don ' t want that and Ringo here don ' t want that . So let ' s see what we can do . Now this is the situation . Normally both of your asses would be dead as fuckin ' fried chicken . But you happened to pull this shit while I ' m in a transitional period . I don ' t wanna kill ya , I want to help ya . But I ' m afraid I can ' t give you the case . It don ' t belong to me . Besides , I went through too much shit this morning on account of this case to just hand it over to your ass .
What the fuck ' s goin ' on here ?
It ' s cool , Vincent ! It ' s cool ! Don ' t do a goddamn thing . Yolanda , it ' s cool baby , nothin ' s changed . We ' re still just talkin '. Tell her we ' re still cool .
It ' s cool , Honey Bunny , we ' re still cool .
What the hell ' s goin ' on , Jules ?
Nothin ' I can ' t handle . I want you to just hang back and don ' t do shit unless it ' s absolutely necessary .
Check .
Yolanda , how we doin , baby ?
Just hang in there , baby , you ' re doing ' great , Ringo ' s proud of you and so am I . It ' s almost over . Now I want you to go in that bag and find my wallet .
Which one is it ?
It ' s the one that says Bad Motherfucker on it .
That ' s my bad motherfucker . Now open it up and take out the cash . How much is there ?
About fifteen hundred dollars .
Put it in your pocket , it ' s yours . Now with the rest of them wallets and the register , that makes this a pretty successful little score .
Jules , if you give this nimrod fifteen hundred buck , I ' m gonna shoot ' em on general principle .
You ain ' t gonna do a goddamn thing , now hang back and shut the fuck up . Besides , I ain ' t givin ' it to him . I ' m buyin ' somethin ' for my money . Wanna know what I ' m buyin ' Ringo ?
What ?
Your life . I ' m givin ' you that money so I don ' t hafta kill your ass . You read the Bible ?
Not regularly .
There ' s a passage I got memorized . Ezekiel 25 : 17 . " The path of the righteous man is beset on all sides by the inequities of the selfish and the tyranny of evil men . Blessed is he who , in the name of charity and good will , shepherds the weak through the valley of the darkness . For he is truly his brother ' s keeper and the finder of lost children . And I will strike down upon thee with great vengeance and furious anger those who attempt to poison and destroy my brothers . And you will know I am the Lord when I lay my vengeance upon you ." I been sayin ' that shit for years . And if you ever heard it , it meant your ass . I never really questioned what it meant . I thought it was just a coldblooded thing to say to a motherfucker ' fore you popped a cap in his ass . But I saw some shit this mornin ' made me think twice . Now I ' m thinkin ', it could mean you ' re the evil man . And I ' m the righteous man . And Mr . . 45 here , he ' s the shepherd protecting my righteous ass in the valley of darkness . Or is could by you ' re the righteous man and I ' m the shepherd and it ' s the world that ' s evil and selfish . I ' d like that . But that shit ain ' t the truth . The truth is you ' re the weak . And I ' m the tyranny of evil men . But I ' m tryin '. I ' m tryin ' real hard to be a shepherd .
It ' s cold .
I think we oughta leave now .
That ' s probably a good idea .
